# FINGER: Fast Inference for Graph-based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search

**arXiv ID**: 2206.11408v1
**Authors**: Patrick H. Chen, Chang Wei-cheng, Yu Hsiang-fu, Inderjit S. Dhillon, Hsieh Cho-jui
**Published**: 2022-06-22
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.11408v1
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2206.11408] FINGER: Fast Inference for Graph-based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search


# FINGER: Fast Inference for Graph-based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search


Patrick H. Chen
UCLA
Los Angels, CA
patrickchen@g.ucla.edu
&Wei-cheng, Chang
Amazon
Palo Alto, CA
weicheng.cmu@gmail.com
&Hsian-fu, Yu
Amazon
Palo Alto, CA
rofu.yu@gmail.com
&Inderjit S. Dhillon
UT Austin `\&` Amazon
Palo Alto, CA
inderjit@cs.utexas.edu
&Cho-jui, Hsieh
UCLA `\&` Amazon
Los Angels, CA
chohsieh@cs.ucla.edu


###### Abstract


Approximate K-Nearest Neighbor Search (AKNNS) has now become ubiquitous in modern applications, for example, as a fast search procedure with two tower deep learning models. Graph-based methods for AKNNS in particular have received great attention due to their superior performance. These methods rely on greedy graph search to traverse the data points as embedding vectors in a database. Under this greedy search scheme, we make a key observation: many distance computations do not influence search updates so these computations can be approximated without hurting performance. As a result, we propose FINGER, a fast inference method to achieve efficient graph search. FINGER approximates the distance function by estimating angles between neighboring residual vectors with low-rank bases and distribution matching. The approximated distance can be used to bypass unnecessary computations, which leads to faster searches. Empirically, accelerating a popular graph-based method named HNSW by FINGER is shown to outperform existing graph-based methods by 20 `\%` -60 `\%` across different benchmark datasets.


##
1 Introduction


 `K` -Nearest Neighbor Search (KNNS) is a fundamental problem in machine learning bishop2006pattern , and is used in various applications in computer vision, natural language processing and data mining chen2018learning ; plotz2018neural ; matsui2018survey . Further, most of the neural embedding-based retrieval and recommendation algorithms require KNNS in the inference phase to find items that are nearest to a given query zhang2019deep . Formally, consider a dataset `D` with ` data points `\{d_{1},d_{2},...,d_{n}\}` where each data point has `m` -dimensional features. Given a query `q\in\mathbb{R}^{m}` , KNNS algorithms return the `K` closest points in `D` under a certain distance measure (e.g., `L2` distance `\|\cdot\|_{2}` ). Despite its simplicity, the cost of finding exact nearest neighbors is linear in the size of a dataset, which can be prohibitive for massive datasets in real time applications. It is almost impossible to obtain exact `K` -nearest neighbors without a linear scan of the whole dataset due to a well-known phenomenon called curse of dimensionality indyk1998approximate . Thus, in practice, an exact KNNS becomes time-consuming or even infeasible for large-scale data. To overcome this problem, researchers resort to Approximate `K` -Nearest Neighbor Search (AKNNS). An AKNNS method proposes a set of `K` candidate neighbors `T=\{t_{1},\cdots,t_{K}\}` to approximate the exact answer. Performance of AKNNS is usually measured by recall@ `K` defined as `\frac{|T\cap A|}{K}` , where `A` is the set of ground-truth `K` -nearest neighbors of `q` in the dataset `D` . Most AKNNS methods try to minimize the search time by leveraging pre-computed data structures while maintaining high recall jayaram2019diskann . There is a large body of AKNNS literature cai2019revisit ; wang2020note ; matsui2018survey ; most of the efficient AKNNS methods can be categorized into three categories: quantization methods, space partitioning methods and graph-based methods. In particular, graph-based methods receive extensive attention from researchers due to their competitive performance. Many papers have reported that graph-based methods are among the most competitive AKNNS methods on various benchmark datasets cai2019revisit ; wang2020note ; aumuller2020ann ; Fu2021-mj .


*[Figure: Figure 1: Comparison of state-of-the-art graph-based libraries on three benchmark datasets. Throughput versus recall@10 curve is used as the metric, ]*


Graph-based methods work by constructing an underlying search graph where each node corresponds to a data point in `D` . Given a query `q` and a current search node `c` , at each step, an algorithm will only calculate distances between `q` and all neighboring nodes of `c` . Once the local search of `c` is completed, the current search node will be replaced with an unexplored node whose distance is the closest to `q` among all unexplored nodes. Thus, neighboring edge selection of a data point plays an important role in graph-based methods as it controls the complexity of the search space. Consequently, most recent research is focused on how to construct different search graphs or design heuristics to prune edges in a graph to achieve efficient searches jayaram2019diskann ; Fu2021-mj ; sugawara2016approximately ; malkov2018efficient . Despite different methods having their own advantages, there is no clear winner among these graph construction approaches on all datasets. Following a recent systematic evaluation protocol aumuller2020ann , we evaluate performance by comparing throughput versus recall@10 curves, where a larger area under the curve corresponds to a better method. As shown in Figure 1, many graph-based methods achieve similar performance on three benchmark datasets. A method (e.g., PyNNDescent dong2011efficient ) can be competitive on a dataset (e.g., GIST-1M-960) while another method (e.g., HNSW malkov2018efficient ) performs better on the other dataset (e.g., DEEP-10M-96). These results suggest there might not be a single graph construction method that works best, which motivates us to consider the research question: Other than improving an underlying search graph, is there any other strategy to improve search efficiency of all graph-based methods?.


In this paper, instead of proposing yet another graph construction method, we show that for a given graph, part of the computations in the inference phase can be substantially reduced.
Specifically, we observe that after a few node updates, most of the distance computations will not influence the search update. This suggests the complexity of distance calculation during an intermediate stage can be reduced without hurting performance. Based on this observation, we propose FINGER, Fast INference for Graph-based approximated nearest neighbor sEaRch, which reduces computational cost in a graph search while maintaining high recall. Our contribution are summarized as follows:


•


We provide an empirical observation that most of the distance computations in the prevalent best-first-search graph search scheme do not affect final search results. Thus, we can reduce the computational complexity of many distance functions.


•


Leveraging this characteristic, we propose an approximated distance based on modeling angles between neighboring vectors using low-rank bases. In addition, angles of neighboring vectors in a graph tend to be distributed as a Gaussian distribution, and we propose a distribution matching scheme to achieve a better distance approximation.


•


We provide an open source efficient C++ implementation of the proposed algorithm FINGER on the popular HNSW graph-based method. HNSW-FINGER outperforms many popular graph-based AKNNS algorithms in wall-clock time across various benchmark datasets by 20 `\%` -60 `\%` .


##
2 Related Work


There are three major directions in developing efficient approximate K-Nearest-Neighbours Search (AKNNS) methods. The first direction is still to traverse all elements in a database but reduce the complexity of each distance calculation; quantization methods represent this direction. The second direction is to partition search space into regions and only search data points falling into matched regions. This includes tree-based methods silpa2008optimised and hashing-based methods charikar2002similarity . The third direction is graph-based methods which construct a search graph and convert the search into a graph traversal.


Quantization Methods compress data points and represent them as short codes. Compressed representations consume less storage and thus achieve more efficient memory bandwidth usage guo2020accelerating . In addition, the complexity of distance computations can be reduced by computing approximate
distances with the pre-computed lookup tables. Quantization can be done by random projections li2019random , or learned by exploiting structure in the data distribution marcheret2009optimal ; morozov2019unsupervised . In particular, the seminal Product Quantization method jegou2010product separates data feature space into different parts and constructs a quantization codebook for each chunk. Product Quantization has become the cornerstone for most recent quantization methods guo2020accelerating ; martinez2018lsq++ ; wu2017multiscale ; Douze2018-kk . There is also work focusing on learning transformations in accordance with product quantization ge2013optimized . Most recent quantization methods achieve competitive results on various benchmarks guo2020accelerating ; JDH17 .


Space Partition Methods includes hashing-based and tree-based methods. Hashing-based Methods generate low-bit codes for high dimensional data and try to preserve the similarity among the original distance measure. Locality sensitive hashing gionis1999similarity is a representative framework that enables users to design a set of hashing functions. Some data-dependent hashing functions have also been designed wang2010sequential ; he2013k . Nevertheless, a recent review cai2019revisit reported the simplest random-projection hashing charikar2002similarity actually achieves the best performance. According to this review, the advantage of hashing-based methods is simplicity and low memory usage; however, they are significantly outperformed by graph-based methods. Tree-based Methods learn a recursive space partition function as a tree following some criteria. When a new query comes, the learned partition tree is applied to the query and the distance computation is performed only on relevant elements falling in the same sub-tree. Representative methods are
KD-tree silpa2008optimised and `R^{*}` -tree beckmann1990r . It is observed in previous studies that tree-based methods only work for low-dimensional data and their performances drop significantly for high-dimensional problems cai2019revisit .


Graph-based Methods date back to theoretical work in graph theory aurenhammer1991voronoi ; lee1980two ; dearholt1988monotonic . However, these theoretical guarantees only work for low-dimensional data aurenhammer1991voronoi ; lee1980two or require expensive ( `O(n^{2})` or higher) index building complexity dearholt1988monotonic , which is not scalable to large-scale datasets. Recent works are mostly geared toward approximations of different proximity graph structures to improve nearest neighbor search. There is a series of works on approximating `K` -nearest-neighbour graphs harwood2016fanng ; hajebi2011fast ; fu2016efanna ; jin2014fast . Most recent works approximate monotonic graph Fu2017-tg or relative neighbour graph arya1993approximate ; malkov2018efficient . In essence, these methods first construct an approximated `K` -nearest-neighbour graph and prune redundant edges by different criteria inspired by different proximity graph structures. Some other works mixed the above criteria with other heuristics to prune the graph Fu2021-mj ; jayaram2019diskann . Some pruning strategies can even work on randomly initialized dense graphs jayaram2019diskann . According to various empirical studies harwood2016fanng ; cai2019revisit ; aumuller2020ann , graph-based methods achieve very competitive performance among all AKNNS methods. Despite concerns
about scalability of graph-based methods due to their larger memory usage Douze2018-kk , it has been shown that graph-based methods can be deployed in billion scale commercial usage Fu2017-tg . In addition, recent studies also demonstrated that graph-based AKNNS can scale quite well on billion-scale benchmarks when implemented on SSD hard-disks
jayaram2019diskann ; chen2021spann . In this work, we aim at demonstrating a generic method to accelerate the inference speed of graph-based methods so we will mainly focus on in-memory scenarios.


##
3 Methods


###
3.1 Observation: Most distance computations do not contribute to better search results


Once a search graph is built, graph-based methods use a greedy-search strategy (Algorithm 1) to find relevant elements of a query in a database. It maintains two priority queues: candidate queue that stores potential candidates to expand and top results queue that stores current most similar candidates (line 1). At each iteration, it finds the current nearest point in the candidate queue and explores its neighboring points. An upper-bound variable records the distance of the furthest element from the current top results queue to the query `q` (line 1). The search will stop when the current nearest distance from the candidate queue is larger than the upper-bound (line 1), or there is no element left in the candidate queue (line 1). The upper-bound not only controls termination of the search but also determines if a point will present in the candidate queue (line 1). An exploring point will not be added into the candidate queue if the distance from the point to the query is larger than the upper-bound. Thus, upper-bound plays an important role as we need to spend computational resources on distance calculation (dist function in line 1) but it might not influence search results if the distance is larger than the upper-bound. Empirically, as shown in Figure 2, we observe in two benchmark datasets that most of the explorations end up having a larger distance than the upper-bound.
Especially, starting from the mid-phase of a search, over 80 `\%` of distance calculations are larger than the upper-bound.
Using greedy graph search will inevitably waste a significant amount of computing time on non-influential operations. li2020improving also found this phenomenon and proposed to learn an early termination criterion by an ML model. Instead of only focusing on the near-termination phase, we propose a more general framework by incorporating the idea of reducing the complexity of distance calculations into a graph search. The fact that most distance computations do not influence search results suggests that we don’t need to have exact distance computations. A faster distance approximation can be applied in the search.


Figure 2: Illustration of the empirical observation that most points in a database will have distance to query larger than the upper-bound. (a) FashionMNIST-60K-784 dataset (b) Glove-1.2M-100 dataset. Starting from the 5th step of greedy graph search (i.e., running line 1 in Algorithm 1 five times), both experiments show more than 80 `\%` of data points will be larger than the current upper-bound.


*[Figure: Algorithm 1 Greedy Graph Search]*


###
3.2 Modeling Distribution of Neighboring Residual Angles


Given a query `q` and the current nearest point to `q` in the candidate queue `c` ,
in Line 1 of Algorithm 1, we will expand the search by exploring neighbors of `c` .
Consider a specific neighbor of `c` called `d` , we have to compute distance between `q` and `d` in order to update the search results.
Here, we will focus on the `L2` distance (i.e., `Dist=\|q-d\|_{2}` ). The
derivations of inner-product and angle distance are provided in the Supplementary A.
As shown in the previous section, most distance computations will not contribute to the search in later stages, we aim at finding a fast approximation of `L2` distance.
A key idea is that we can leverage `c` to represent `q`
(and `d` ) as a vector along `c` (i.e., projection) and a vector orthogonal to `c` (i.e., residual):
[table]


In other words, we treat each center node as a basis and project the query and its neighboring points onto the center vector so query and data can be written as `q=q_{proj}+q_{res}` and `d=d_{proj}+d_{res}` respectively. With this formulation, the squared `L2` distance can be written as:
[table]


where (a) comes from the fact that projection vectors are orthogonal to residual vectors so the inner product vanishes. For `d_{proj}` and `d_{res}` , we can pre-calculate these values after the search graph is constructed. For `q_{proj}` , notice that center node `c` is extracted from the candidate queue (line 1 of Algorithm 1). That means we must have already visited `c` before. Thus, `\|q-c\|_{2}` has been calculated and we can get `q^{T}c` by a simple algebraic manipulation:
[table]


Since calculation of `\|q\|_{2}^{2}` is a one-time task for a query, it’s not too costly when a dataset is moderately large. `\|c\|_{2}^{2}` can again be pre-computed in advance so `q^{T}c` and thus `q_{proj}` can be obtained in just a few arithmetic operations. Also notice that `\|q\|_{2}^{2}` = `\|q_{proj}\|_{2}^{2}` + `\|q_{res}\|_{2}^{2}` as `q_{proj}` and `q_{res}` are orthogonal, so we can get `\|q_{res}\|_{2}^{2}` by calculating
 `\|q\|_{2}^{2}` - `\|q_{proj}\|_{2}^{2}` in few operations too.


Therefore, the only uncertain term in Eq. (2) is `q_{res}^{T}d_{res}` . If we can estimate this term with less computational resources, we can obtain a fast yet accurate approximation of `L2` distance. Since we don’t have direct access to the distribution of `q` and thus `q_{res}` , we hypothesize we can instead use the distribution of residual vectors between neighbors of `c` to approximate the distribution of `q_{res}^{T}d_{res}` term. The rationale behind this is as we only approximate `q_{res}^{T}d_{res}` when `q` and `c` are close enough (i.e., `c` is selected in line 1 of Algorithm 1), both `q` and `d` could be treated as near points in our search graph and thus interaction between `q_{res}` and `d_{res}` might be well approximated by `{{d^{\prime}}_{res}}^{T}d_{res}` , where `{d}^{\prime}` is another neighbouring point of `c` and `{d}^{\prime}_{res}` is its residual vector. Empirically, as shown in the left column of Figure 4, angles between residual vectors of sampled neighbors (i.e., `d,d^{\prime}\in\text{neighbor}(c)` ) distributes like a Gaussian. In particular, compared to the distribution of direct inner-product `{d^{\prime}_{res}}^{T}d_{res}` (right column of Figure 4), the distribution `\text{cos}(d^{\prime}_{res},d_{res})` is less-skewed and thus more alike Gaussian. This motivates us to design an efficient approximator of `\text{cos}(q_{res},d_{res})` and obtain `q_{res}^{T}d_{res}` by `\|q_{res}\|_{2}\|d_{res}\|_{2}\text{cos}(q_{res},d_{res})` .


###
3.3 FINGER: Fast Inference by Low-rank Angle Estimation and Distribution Matching


*[Figure: Figure 3: Illustration of the empirical observation that normalized cosine values of neighboring residual vectors distribute as a Gaussian distributio]*


*[Figure: Figure 4: Illustration of Distribution Matching. In the left column, we show correct angle distributions of FashionMNIST-60K-784 and SIFT-1M-128. In t]*


#### Low-rank Estimation


Motivated by the above derivations, we aim at finding an efficient estimation of angles between all pairs of neighboring residual vectors. In AKNNS literature, a popular method for estimating this is Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH) and its variants. In particular, Random Projection-based LSH (RPLSH) charikar2002similarity is reported to achieve good average performance on various benchmark datasets cai2019revisit . RPLSH samples ` random vectors from Normal distribution to form a projection matrix `P\in\mathbb{R}^{r\times m}` , where `m` is the dimension of data and query.
 `L2` distance between two vectors `x,y\in\mathbb{R}^{m}` can be approximated by the distance in projected space, and the error,
[table]


is bounded probabilistically johnson1984extensions . We can further binarize the projection results to form a compact representation, and the angle between `x` and `y` can be approximated by hamming distance of the signed results: hamm(sgn( `Px` ),sgn( `Py` ) `)\frac{\pi}{r}` . However, there is an immediate disadvantage with this approach. Random projection guarantees worst case performance freksen2021introduction and it is oblivious of the data distribution.
Since we can sample abundant neighboring residual vectors from the training database, we can leverage the data information to obtain a better approximation. Formally, given an existing search graph `G=(D,E)` where `D` are nodes in the graph corresponding to data points and `E` are edges connecting data points, we collect all residual vectors into `D_{res}\in\mathbb{R}^{m\times N}` , where `N` is total number of edges in `G` (i.e., `|E|` ); and we assume `D_{res}` spans the whole space which residual vectors lie in. The approximation problem can be formulated as the following optimization problem:
[table]


where we aim at finding an optimal `P` minimizing the approximating error over the residual pairs `D_{res}` from training data. It’s not hard to see that the Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) of `D_{res}` will provide an answer to the above optimization problem, and thus we can use SVD to find better ` lower-dimensions to estimate the angle of neighboring residual vectors.


######
Proposition 3.1.


Given a residual vector matrix `D_{res}\in\mathbb{R}^{m\times N}` , and denoting `D_{res}=USV^{T}` as the Singular Value Decomposition of `D_{res}` . `U_{1:r}` , the first ` columns of `U` is an optimal solution of optimization problem Eq. (3).


###### Proof.


The proof is provided in the Supplementary B.
∎


#### Distribution Matching


In addition to efficient low-rank estimation of angles, we further propose a distribution matching method to improve the performance. Despite as discussed in Section 3.2 that angles between neighbouring residual vectors tend to be distributed alike Gaussian, this attribute only partially transfers to the distribution of angles approximated by low-rank computations as shown in Figure 4. Although the approximated distribution still looks alike Gaussian, its distribution is slightly skewed. Furthermore, its mean is shifted and its variance is larger than the real data distribution. To mitigate this, we propose to transform the approximated distributions into real data distributions by matching their mean and variance. Formally, assume angles of neighboring residual vectors follows a Gaussian distribution `\mathcal{N}(\mu,\sigma)` , and the approximated angles distributes as `\mathcal{N}(\hat{\mu},\hat{\sigma})` .
Given a residual pair `x` and `y` with a low-rank projection matrix `P` , we can calculate the approximated angle `\hat{t}=\text{cos}(Px,Py)` . Under our assumption that it comes from a draw of `\mathcal{N}(\hat{\mu},\hat{\sigma})` , the value can be transformed by =(\hat{t}-\hat{\mu})\frac{\sigma}{\hat{\sigma}}+\mu` .
The transformed angle estimation ` then follows `\mathcal{N}(\mu,\sigma)` as desired. Parameters `\mu,\sigma,\hat{\mu},\hat{\sigma}` can be estimated by using training data.


#### Overall Algorithm


Construction of FINGER can be summarized in Algorithm 2. Our aim is to provide a generic acceleration for all graph-based search. Thus, we can build the search index from any existing graph `G` . FINGER first iterates through all nodes in the graph. For each node, FINGER samples a pair of distinct nodes from its neighbors. In addition, we also calculate the residual vector of one sampled point and store it for later usage. We hypothesize the collected residual vectors `D_{res}` spans the residual space, and we can find its optimal low-rank approximation by SVD.
Once the low-rank projection `P` is ready, we can estimate the mean and variance of angle distribution and approximated distribution respectively (i.e., line 2, 2 in Algorithm 2).
Certainly, this distribution matching scheme would still produce error. We further compute the average `L1` error between real and approximated angles to serve as an error correction term. With this information saved in a search


*[Figure: Figure 5: Experimental results of graph-based methods. Throughput versus Recall@10 chart is plotted for all datasets. Top row presents datasets with ]*


index, Algorithm 3 approximates the distance between a query `q` and a data point `d` . Notice that we explicitly write out the projection matrix `P` and center node `c` in Algorithm 3 to make it easier to understand the full approximation workflow. In practice, the projected residual vector `Pd_{res}` can be pre-computed and stored. Detailed computation is illustrated in the Supplementary.


##
4 Experimental Results


###
4.1 Experimental Setups


#### Baseline Methods


We compare FINGER to the most competitive graph-based and quantization methods. We include different implementations of the popular HNSW methods such as NMSLIB malkov2018efficient , n2111https://github.com/kakao/n2/tree/master, PECOS yu2020pecos and HNSWLIB malkov2018efficient .
Other graph construction methods include NGT-PANNG sugawara2016approximately , VAMANA(DiskANN) jayaram2019diskann and PyNNDescent dong2011efficient . Since our goal is to demonstrate FINGER can improve search efficiency of an underlying graph, we mainly include these competitive methods with good python interface and documentation. For quantization methods, we compare to the best performing ScaNN guo2020accelerating and Faiss-IVFPQFS JDH17 .
In experiments, we combine FINGER with HNSW as it is a simple and prevalent method. The implementation of HNSW-FINGER is based on a modification of PECOS as its codebase is easy to read and extend. Pre-processing time and memory footprint are discussed in the Supplementary F.


*[Figure: Algorithm 2 Construction of FINGER]*


*[Figure: Algorithm 3 Approximate Distance Function]*


#### Evaluation Protocol and Dataset


We follow ANN-benchmark protocol aumuller2020ann to run all experiments. Instead of using a single set of hyperparameter, the protocol searches over a pre-defined set of hyper-parameters222https://github.com/erikbern/ann-benchmarks/blob/master/algos.yaml for each method, and reports the best performance over each recall regime. In other words, it allows methods to compete others with its own best hyper-parmameters within each recall regime. We follow this protocol to measure recall@10 values and report the best performance over 10 runs. Results will be presented as throughput versus recall@10 charts. A method is better if the area under curve is larger in the plot. All experiments are run on AWS r5dn.24xlarge instance with Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8259CL CPU @ 2.50GHz. We evaluate results over both `L2` -based and angular-based metric. We represent a dataset with the following format: (dataset name)-(training data size)-(dimensionality of dataset). For `L2` distance measure, we evaluate on FashionMNIST-60K-784, SIFT-1M-128, and GIST-1M-960. For cosine distance measure, we evaluate on NYTIMES-290K-256, GLOVE-1.2M-100 and DEEP-10M-96. More details of each dataset can be found in aumuller2020ann .


*[Figure: Figure 6: Results of ablation studies on FashionMNIST-60K-784 and GLOVE-1.2M-100. (a) and (b) show approximation error( `\%` ) vs effective number of]*


###
4.2 Improvements of FINGER over HNSW


In Figure 5, we demonstrate how FINGER accelerates the competitive HNSW algorithm on all datasets. Since FINGER is implemented on top of PECOS, it’s important for us to check if PECOS provides any advantage over other HNSW libraries. Results verify that across all 6 datasets, the performance of PECOS does not give an edge over other HNSW implementations, so the performance difference between FINGER and other HNSW implementations could be mostly attributed to the proposed approximate distance search scheme. We observe that FINGER greatly boosts the performance over all different datasets and outperforms existing graph-based algorithms. FINGER works better not only on datasets with large dimensionality such as FashionMNIST-60K-784 and GIST-1M-960, but also works for dimensionality within range between 96 to 128. This shows that FINGER can accelerate the distance computation across different dimensionalities.
Results of comparison to most competitive graph-based methods are shown in Figure 8 of the Supplementary D. Briefly speaking, HNSW-FINGER outperforms most state-of-the-art graph-based methods except FashionMNIST-60K-784 where PyNNDescent achieves the best and HNSW-FINGER is the runner-up. Notice that FINGER could also be implemented over other graph structures including PyNNDescent. We chose to build on top of HNSW algorithm only due to its simplicity and popularity. Studying which graph-based method benefits most from FINGER is an interesting future direction. Here, we aim at empirically demonstrating approximated distance function can be integrated into the greedy search for graph-based methods to achieve a better performance.


*[Figure: Figure 7: Comparisons to competitive quantization methods. Throughput versus Recall@10 chart is plotted for three datasets.
We can observe each method]*


###
4.3 Ablation Study


We conduct an ablation study to see the effectiveness of each component of FINGER. First, we compare FINGER to the popular random projection locality hashing (RPLSH) for angle estimation. Since we have greatly optimized C++ implementation of FINGER, a direct comparison on wall-clock time won’t be fair. Instead, we compare two schemes by counting the effective number of distance function calls. We collect the number of full distance calls and approximate distance calls separately, and combine them into an effective number of distance calls. For example, if we call full `m` -dimensional distance ` times and ` times of ` -dimensional approximate computations, we would have an effective distance calls of +b\frac{r}{m}` times. We firstly analyze estimation quality by approximation error defined as `\frac{|t-\hat{t}|}{|t|}` where ` is the true cosine angle value and `\hat{t}` is the approximated value. Ideally, we could expect a better approximation scheme results in a smaller approximation error. Certainly, a smaller approximation doesn’t necessarily yield better recall. Thus, we will also analyze the performance based on recall. Results of trade-off between approximation error ( `\%` ) and effective number of distance calls are shown in Figure 6(a) for FashionMNIST-60K-784 and 6(b) for GLOVE-1.2M-100. Corresponding results of recall vs effective distance calls are shown in Figure 6(c) and 6(d). We can see FINGER achieves smaller approximation errors compared to RPLSH on both datasets, which shows that FINGER is indeed a better low-rank approximation given data distribution. We also observe smaller approximation error transfers to higher recalls on both datasets. In addition, we apply distribution matching on RPLSH and found out this will greatly improve RPLSH. This shows distribution matching is a generic method that improves the performance of all different angle estimation methods. But even with the aid of distribution matching, RPLSH cannot achieve similar performance as FINGER and this shows the superiority of SVD results.
Since FINGER consists of a low-rank approximation module plus a distribution matching module, we are interested in studying their own effectiveness. We conduct similar analysis on full method and low-rank only version of FINGER shown in Figure 6. Low-rank approximation alone still provides a much better angle estimation compared to RPLSH. Even without the distribution matching scheme, low-rank angle estimation outperforms RPLSH with distribution matching. We also observe limited difference between FINGER and FINGER without distribution matching in FashionMNIST-60K-784. However, the difference is more significant when it comes to GLOVE-1.2M-100 which still shows effective distribution matching.


###
4.4 Comparison to Quantization Results


In addition to graph-based method, we are also interested in seeing the performance of HNSW-FINGER compared to the state-of-the-art quantization methods. Results of comparisons to quantization methods are shown in Figure 7. As we can observe, there is no single method achieving the best performance over all tasks.
Faiss-IVFPQFS performs well on NYTIMES-290K-256 but fails on DEEP-10M-96. ScaNN performs consistently well on all datasets but it doesn’t achieve top performance on anyone. HNSW-FINGER performs competitively on GIST-1M-960 and DEEP-10M-96 but worse on NYTIMES-290K-256. These results showed that quantization provides some advantages over graph-based methods but the advantage is not consistent across datasets. Studying how to combine the advantage of quantization methods with FINGER and graph-based methods is an interesting future direction.


##
5 Conclusions and Social Impact


In this work, we propose FINGER, a fast inference method for graph-based AKNNS. FINGER approximates distance function in graph-based method by estimating angles between neighboring residual vectors. FINGER constructs low-rank bases to estimate residual angles and use distribution matching to achieve a better precision. The approximated distance can be used to bypass unnecessary distance evaluations, which translates into a faster searching. Empirically, FINGER on top of HNSW is shown to outperform all existing graph-based methods.


This work mainly focuses on accelerating existing models with approximate computations. It doesn’t directly touch any controversial part of the data and thus it’s unlikely providing any negative social impact. When used correctly with positive information to spread. It can help to accelerate the propagation as the work accelerates the inference speed.


## References


[1]

Sunil Arya and David M Mount.


Approximate nearest neighbor queries in fixed dimensions.


In SODA, volume 93, pages 271–280. Citeseer, 1993.


[2]

Martin Aumüller, Erik Bernhardsson, and Alexander Faithfull.


Ann-benchmarks: A benchmarking tool for approximate nearest neighbor
algorithms.


Information Systems, 87:101374, 2020.


[3]

Franz Aurenhammer.


Voronoi diagrams—a survey of a fundamental geometric data
structure.


ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 23(3):345–405, 1991.


[4]

Norbert Beckmann, Hans-Peter Kriegel, Ralf Schneider, and Bernhard Seeger.


The r*-tree: An efficient and robust access method for points and
rectangles.


In SIGMOD, pages 322–331, 1990.


[5]

Christopher M Bishop.


Pattern recognition.


Machine learning, 128(9), 2006.


[6]

Deng Cai.


A revisit of hashing algorithms for approximate nearest neighbor
search.


IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2019.


[7]

Moses S Charikar.


Similarity estimation techniques from rounding algorithms.


In STOC, pages 380–388, 2002.


[8]

Patrick H Chen, Si Si, Sanjiv Kumar, Yang Li, and Cho-Jui Hsieh.


Learning to screen for fast softmax inference on large vocabulary
neural networks.


In ICLR, 2019.


[9]

Qi Chen, Bing Zhao, Haidong Wang, Mingqin Li, Chuanjie Liu, Zhiyong Zheng, Mao
Yang, and Jingdong Wang.


Spann: Highly-efficient billion-scale approximate nearest
neighborhood search.


NeurIPS, 34, 2021.


[10]

DW Dearholt, N Gonzales, and G Kurup.


Monotonic search networks for computer vision databases.


In Twenty-Second Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems and
Computers, volume 2, pages 548–553. IEEE, 1988.


[11]

Wei Dong, Charikar Moses, and Kai Li.


Efficient k-nearest neighbor graph construction for generic
similarity measures.


In WWW, pages 577–586, 2011.


[12]

Matthijs Douze, Alexandre Sablayrolles, and Hervé Jégou.


Link and code: Fast indexing with graphs and compact regression
codes.


In CVPR, pages 3646–3654, 2018.


[13]

Casper Benjamin Freksen.


An introduction to johnson-lindenstrauss transforms.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.00564, 2021.


[14]

Cong Fu and Deng Cai.


Efanna: An extremely fast approximate nearest neighbor search
algorithm based on knn graph.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.07228, 2016.


[15]

Cong Fu, Changxu Wang, and Deng Cai.


High dimensional similarity search with satellite system graph:
Efficiency, scalability, and unindexed query compatibility.


IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., PP, March 2021.


[16]

Cong Fu, Chao Xiang, Changxu Wang, and Deng Cai.


Fast approximate nearest neighbor search with the navigating
spreading-out graph.


July 2017.


[17]

Tiezheng Ge, Kaiming He, Qifa Ke, and Jian Sun.


Optimized product quantization.


IEEE TPAMI, 36(4):744–755, 2013.


[18]

Aristides Gionis, Piotr Indyk, Rajeev Motwani, et al.


Similarity search in high dimensions via hashing.


In VLDB, volume 99, pages 518–529, 1999.


[19]

Ruiqi Guo, Philip Sun, Erik Lindgren, Quan Geng, David Simcha, Felix Chern, and
Sanjiv Kumar.


Accelerating large-scale inference with anisotropic vector
quantization.


In ICML, pages 3887–3896. PMLR, 2020.


[20]

Kiana Hajebi, Yasin Abbasi-Yadkori, Hossein Shahbazi, and Hong Zhang.


Fast approximate nearest-neighbor search with k-nearest neighbor
graph.


In Twenty-Second International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 2011.


[21]

Ben Harwood and Tom Drummond.


Fanng: Fast approximate nearest neighbour graphs.


In CVPR, pages 5713–5722, 2016.


[22]

Kaiming He, Fang Wen, and Jian Sun.


K-means hashing: An affinity-preserving quantization method for
learning binary compact codes.


In CVPR, 2013.


[23]

Piotr Indyk and Rajeev Motwani.


Approximate nearest neighbors: towards removing the curse of
dimensionality.


In STOC, pages 604–613, 1998.


[24]

Suhas Jayaram Subramanya, Fnu Devvrit, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri, Ravishankar
Krishnawamy, and Rohan Kadekodi.


Diskann: Fast accurate billion-point nearest neighbor search on a
single node.


NeurIPS, 32, 2019.


[25]

Herve Jegou, Matthijs Douze, and Cordelia Schmid.


Product quantization for nearest neighbor search.


IEEE TPAMI, 33(1):117–128, 2010.


[26]

Zhongming Jin, Debing Zhang, Yao Hu, Shiding Lin, Deng Cai, and Xiaofei He.


Fast and accurate hashing via iterative nearest neighbors expansion.


IEEE transactions on cybernetics, 44(11):2167–2177, 2014.


[27]

Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou.


Billion-scale similarity search with gpus.


IEEE Transactions on Big Data, 7(3):535–547, 2019.


[28]

William B Johnson and Joram Lindenstrauss.


Extensions of lipschitz mappings into a hilbert space 26.


Contemporary mathematics, 26, 1984.


[29]

Der-Tsai Lee and Bruce J Schachter.


Two algorithms for constructing a delaunay triangulation.


International Journal of Computer & Information Sciences,
9(3):219–242, 1980.


[30]

Conglong Li, Minjia Zhang, David G Andersen, and Yuxiong He.


Improving approximate nearest neighbor search through learned
adaptive early termination.


In SIGMOD, pages 2539–2554, 2020.


[31]

Xiaoyun Li and Ping Li.


Random projections with asymmetric quantization.


NeurIPS, 32, 2019.


[32]

Yu A Malkov and Dmitry A Yashunin.


Efficient and robust approximate nearest neighbor search using
hierarchical navigable small world graphs.


IEEE TPAMI, 42(4):824–836, 2018.


[33]

Etienne Marcheret, Vaibhava Goel, and Peder A Olsen.


Optimal quantization and bit allocation for compressing large
discriminative feature space transforms.


In 2009 IEEE Workshop on ASRU, pages 64–69. IEEE, 2009.


[34]

Julieta Martinez, Shobhit Zakhmi, Holger H Hoos, and James J Little.


Lsq++: Lower running time and higher recall in multi-codebook
quantization.


In ECCV, 2018.


[35]

Yusuke Matsui, Yusuke Uchida, Hervé Jégou, and Shin’ichi Satoh.


A survey of product quantization.


ITE Transactions on Media Technology and Applications,
6(1):2–10, 2018.


[36]

Stanislav Morozov and Artem Babenko.


Unsupervised neural quantization for compressed-domain similarity
search.


In ICCV, pages 3036–3045, 2019.


[37]

Tobias Plötz and Stefan Roth.


Neural nearest neighbors networks.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.12575, 2018.


[38]

Chanop Silpa-Anan and Richard Hartley.


Optimised kd-trees for fast image descriptor matching.


In CVPR, pages 1–8. IEEE, 2008.


[39]

Kohei Sugawara, Hayato Kobayashi, and Masajiro Iwasaki.


On approximately searching for similar word embeddings.


In ACL, 2016.


[40]

Hongya Wang, Zhizheng Wang, Wei Wang, Yingyuan Xiao, Zeng Zhao, and Kaixiang
Yang.


A note on graph-based nearest neighbor search.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.11083, 2020.


[41]

Jun Wang, Sanjiv Kumar, and Shih-Fu Chang.


Sequential projection learning for hashing with compact codes.


2010.


[42]

Xiang Wu, Ruiqi Guo, Ananda Theertha Suresh, Sanjiv Kumar, Daniel N
Holtmann-Rice, David Simcha, and Felix Yu.


Multiscale quantization for fast similarity search.


NeurIPS, 30:5745–5755, 2017.


[43]

Hsiang-Fu Yu, Kai Zhong, and Inderjit S Dhillon.


Pecos: Prediction for enormous and correlated output spaces.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.05878, 2020.


[44]

Shuai Zhang, Lina Yao, Aixin Sun, and Yi Tay.


Deep learning based recommender system: A survey and new
perspectives.


ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 52(1):1–38, 2019.


## Checklist


The checklist follows the references. Please
read the checklist guidelines carefully for information on how to answer these
questions. For each question, change the default [TODO] to [Yes] ,
[No] , or [N/A] . You are strongly encouraged to include a justification to your answer, either by referencing the appropriate section of
your paper or providing a brief inline description. For example:


•


Did you include the license to the code and datasets? [Yes] See Section 4.1.


•


Did you include the license to the code and datasets? [No] The code and the data are proprietary.


•


Did you include the license to the code and datasets? [N/A]


Please do not modify the questions and only use the provided macros for your
answers. Note that the Checklist section does not count towards the page
limit. In your paper, please delete this instructions block and only keep the
Checklist section heading above along with the questions/answers below.


1.


For all authors…


(a)


Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the paper’s contributions and scope?
[Yes]


(b)


Did you describe the limitations of your work?
[Yes]


(c)


Did you discuss any potential negative societal impacts of your work?
[Yes]


(d)


Have you read the ethics review guidelines and ensured that your paper conforms to them?
[Yes]


2.


If you are including theoretical results…


(a)


Did you state the full set of assumptions of all theoretical results?
[N/A]


(b)


Did you include complete proofs of all theoretical results?
[N/A]


3.


If you ran experiments…


(a)


Did you include the code, data, and instructions needed to reproduce the main experimental results (either in the supplemental material or as a URL)?
[Yes]


(b)


Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they were chosen)?
[Yes]


(c)


Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the random seed after running experiments multiple times)?
[No] , the benchmark is using best result across different methods, so I followed the previous work.


(d)


Did you include the total amount of compute and the type of resources used (e.g., type of GPUs, internal cluster, or cloud provider)?
[Yes]


4.


If you are using existing assets (e.g., code, data, models) or curating/releasing new assets…


(a)


If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the creators?
[Yes]


(b)


Did you mention the license of the assets?
[No] , but it’s included in the benchmark link I included.


(c)


Did you include any new assets either in the supplemental material or as a URL?
[No]


(d)


Did you discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose data you’re using/curating?
[Yes]


(e)


Did you discuss whether the data you are using/curating contains personally identifiable information or offensive content?
[No] , This work is using existing dataset without touching these issues.


5.


If you used crowdsourcing or conducted research with human subjects…


(a)


Did you include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable?
[N/A]


(b)


Did you describe any potential participant risks, with links to Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals, if applicable?
[N/A]


(c)


Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to participants and the total amount spent on participant compensation?
[N/A]


Supplementary


##
Appendix A Formulation of Inner-product


In the main text, we presented derivation of `L2` distance, and in this section we will derive the approximation for inner-product distance measure. Notice that angle measure can be obtained by firstly normalizing data vectors and then apply inner-product distance and thus the derivation is the same. For a query `q` and data point `d` , inner-product distance measure is `Dist=q^{T}d` . Similar to `L2` distance, we can apply the same decomposition to write `q=q_{proj}+q_{res}` and `d=d_{proj}+d_{res}` . substituting the decomposition into distance definition, we have
[table]


As in `L2` case `q_{proj}` and `d_{proj}` can be obtained by simple operations and the remaining uncertainy term is again `q_{res}^{T}d_{res}` . Therefore, in inner-product case, angle between neighboring residual vectors is still the target to approximate.


##
Appendix B Proof of proposition 3.1


###### Proof.


We can firstly construct all possible pairs of `\frac{N(N-1)}{2}` combinations of sample of vectors `x,y` from `D_{res}` and compile all `\frac{N(N-1)}{2}` pairs into two matrices `X` and `Y` . With this notation, we can rewrite the original optimization into matrix form:
[table]


where `\|\cdot\|_{F}` denotes matrix frobenius norm. By introducing the matrix notation, we then explicitly write out the overall objective function without the sampling. We can further denote `Z=X-Y` . `Z` matrix then denotes all possible pairs of vector difference from our original distribution. The objective function can then further be written into:
[table]


where `U_{z}S_{z}V_{z}^{T}` denotes the SVD decomposition of `Z` . By the basic properties of SVD decomposition, we know that `\|U_{z}S_{z}V_{z}^{T}\|_{F}^{2}=\|S_{z}\|_{F}^{2}` as `U_{z}` and `V_{z}` are unitary matrices. `\|S_{z}\|_{F}^{2}` equals sum of square of singular values of `Z` . Similarly, `\|PU_{z}S_{z}V_{z}^{T}\|_{F}^{2}=\|PU_{z}S_{z}\|_{F}^{2}` . Thus it’s not hard to see that the objective function is to find a projection direction which will result the minimal difference between the projected `S_{z}` and full sum of squared eigenvalues of `S_{z}` . Thus, the optimal answer is the top ` directions as of columns of matrix `U_{z}` as it will cancel out the top ` square of eigenvalues of `S_{z}` which happens to be the largest ones.


The remaining thing is to show that SVD of `Z` is essentially the same as SVD of `D_{res}` . Notice that both `X` and `Y` are just duplicating and re-ordering of `D_{res}` . So both `X` , `Y` share the same basis of `D_{res}` . Denote SVD results of `D_{res}=USV^{T}` . We can then represent `X=USV_{x}^{T}` and `Y=USV_{y}^{T}` . Consequently, we can also represent the SVD of `Z` as `Z=X-Y=USV_{x}^{T}-USV_{y}^{T}=US(V_{x}-V_{y})^{T}` so we can see that it shares the same basis as `D_{res}` and the proof is complete.


∎


##
Appendix C Approximate Greedy Search Algorithm


*[Figure: Algorithm 4 Approximate Greedy Graph Search]*


*[Figure: Figure 8: Experimental results of graph-based methods. Throughput versus Recall@10 chart is plotted for all datasets. Top row presents datasets with ]*


##
Appendix D Complete Comparison of Graph-based Methods


Complete results of all graph-based methods are shown in Figure 8. HNSW-FINGER basically outperforms all existing graph-based methods except on FashionMNIST-60K-784 where PyNNDescent performs extremely well. In principle, FINGER could also be applied on PyNNDescent to further improve the result. Results show that currently no graph-based methods completely exploits the training data distribution. This reflects the importance of the inference acceleration methods as FINGER that can create consistently faster inference on all underlying search graph. Making a search graph maximally suitable for applying FINGER is also an interesting future direction.


##
Appendix E Selection of Rank Parameter `


Under ANN-benchmark protocol, we could have made the selection of rank ` in FINGER as a hyper-parameter to search in order to achieve best performance. But this might be time-consuming for real applications. Instead, here we provide a practical rule of thumb for choosing ` by calculating the correlation coefficient of `X,Y` in Algorithm 2. `X` stores true angles between neighboring pairs and `Y` stores approximated angles. We start ` to be 8 in order to maximally leverage SIMD. Specifically, AVX2 SIMD allows a single instruction with 8 parallel floating point computation. Increase the rank in a multiple of 8 will maximally leverage the capability of SIMD instructions. Now, if the correlation is smaller than 0.7, we enlarge ` by 8 and redo Algorithm 2 again with increased ` until correlation between `X` and `y` is larger than 0.7. In this work, to show the effectiveness of applying FINGER in read world applications, we use this search scheme and ranks learned in FashionMNIST-60K-784: 16, SIFT-1M-128: 16, GIST-1M-960: 16, NYTIMES-290K-256: 48, GLOVE-1.2M-100: 32 and DEEP-10M-96: 24.


##
Appendix F Pre-processing Time and Memory footprint of HNSW-FINGER and HNSW


Examples of pre-processing time and memory footprint of HNSW-FINGER and HNSW is shown in Table 1. FINGER requires additional linear scan of training data, so it will add some additional processing time to the base method. The difference is around 90 seconds which is not significant compared to the pre-processing time of base HNSW method. Memory usage of HNSW is approximately memory of data plus number of edges `|E|` `\times` sizeof(int). For a selected low-rank dimension ` , FINGER requires additional ( ` + 2) `\times` |E| `\times` sizeof(float) to store the pre-computed values.


*[Figure: Table 1: Construction statistics of HNSW-FINGER and HNSW. Pre-processing time in second is shown in the table. Numbers in parentheses represent the me]*


##
Appendix G Detailed computation of Approximate Distance.


As mentioned in the main text, we explicitly write out the projection matrix `P` and center node `c` in Algorithm 3 to make it easier to understand the full approximation workflow. In practice, the projected residual vector `Pd_{res}` can be pre-computed and stored in the search index to save inference time. `Pq_{res}` can also be easily calculated by
[table]


 `Pq` needs only be calculated once for whole graph search so the cost is limited when the rank ` is not large. As we point out in Section 3.1, `c^{T}q` must already be calculated when we explore neighbours of `c` . `c^{T}c` and `Pc` can again be pre-computed and stored. Thus, the cost of `Pq_{res}` is limited to a low-dimensional vector subtraction. To apply FINGER, we only need to slightly modify Algorithm 1. Specifically, we replace distance function dist( ` , `q` ) in line 1 of Algorithm 1 with the approximation (i.e., Algorithm 3). If the approximated distance is larger than the upper-bound variable, the search continues. Otherwise, we calculate precise distance between `q` and `d` and update the candidate queue correspondingly. This will make sure that all distance information in candidates set `C` is correct so the algorithm won’t terminate too early. The complete modified algorithm is listed in the Supplementary C, and the selection of rank ` is discussed in Supplementary E.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►