# Video-adverb retrieval with compositional adverb-action embeddings

**arXiv ID**: 2309.15086v1
**Authors**: Thomas Hummel, Otniel-Bogdan Mercea, A. Sophia Koepke, Zeynep Akata
**Published**: 2023-09-26
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15086v1
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2309.15086] Video-adverb retrieval with compositional adverb-action embeddings


\addauthor


Thomas Hummelthomas.hummel@uni-tuebingen.de1
\addauthorOtniel-Bogdan Merceaotniel-bogdan.mercea@uni-tuebingen.de1
\addauthorA. Sophia Koepkea-sophia.koepke@uni-tuebingen.de1
\addauthorZeynep Akatazeynep.akata@uni-tuebingen.de1,2
\addinstitution
University of Tübingen
Germany

\addinstitution
MPI for Intelligent Systems
Germany

Video-adverb retrieval with compositional embeddings





# Video-adverb retrieval with compositional adverb-action embeddings


###### Abstract


Retrieving adverbs that describe an action in a video poses a crucial step towards fine-grained video understanding.
We propose a framework for video-to-adverb retrieval (and vice versa) that aligns video embeddings with their matching compositional adverb-action text embedding in a joint embedding space. The compositional adverb-action text embedding is learned using a residual gating mechanism, along with a novel training objective consisting of triplet losses and a regression target.
Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on five recent benchmarks for video-adverb retrieval. Furthermore, we introduce dataset splits to benchmark video-adverb retrieval for unseen adverb-action compositions on subsets of the MSR-VTT Adverbs and ActivityNet Adverbs datasets.
Our proposed framework outperforms all prior works for the generalisation task of retrieving adverbs from videos for unseen adverb-action compositions.
Code and dataset splits are available at https://hummelth.github.io/ReGaDa/.


##
1 Introduction


Fine-grained video understanding is concerned with the detailed analysis of video content beyond action recognition. This is relevant for improving and potentially accelerating video search and retrieval. While there has been significant progress in action retrieval and recognition in videos [Miech et al.(2020)Miech, Alayrac, Smaira, Laptev, Sivic, and Zisserman, Patrick et al.(2021)Patrick, Huang, Asano, Metze, Hauptmann, Henriques, and Vedaldi, Tanberk et al.(2020)Tanberk, Kilimci, Tükel, Uysal, and Akyokuş, Alhersh et al.(2021)Alhersh, Stuckenschmidt, Rehman, and Belhaouari], the fine-grained understanding of actions remains challenging. In particular,
it can be useful to perceive how an action is performed in order to better understand the action itself [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen, Doughty and Snoek(2022), Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara].
For instance, in addition to recognising the action cutting, it is useful to understand details about the execution of an action, e.g\bmvaOneDotcutting slowly.
Specifically, we consider the bidirectional video-adverb retrieval task where we retrieve adverbs that match an action in a video and vice versa.


For bidirectional video-adverb retrieval, adverbs and action words can be combined in a compositional manner. The same adverb can describe multiple actions, such as cutting slowly or dancing slowly.
The compositional nature of the adverb-action pairings can also be exploited when learning adverb-action representations.
Our proposed ReGAdA framework for video-adverb retrieval uses a residual gating mechanism to compose adverb-action (ReGAdA) representations for retrieval.


At its core, our framework learns to align adverb representations and video representations in a shared embedding space using a novel training objective which consists of a direct regression loss between the adverb and video representations and triplet losses.
To obtain the adverb representation, the adverb and action are jointly embedded using a residual gating mechanism, which we adapted to the video-adverb retrieval task from [Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays].
It models the composition as a transformation of the adverb embedding based on the action by using a gate and a residual mechanism.
The gate facilitates the preservation of meaningful information from the adverb embeddings based on the adverb-action composition.
Our final composition is learned as a residual combination on top of the gated adverb embeddings. This allows our composed embeddings to be in the same “feature space” as the original adverb embeddings.
Similar to previous works for this task, our model assumes knowledge of the ground-truth action class to perform video-adverb retrieval.


The compositional adverb-action embeddings and our proposed training objective prove beneficial for the retrieval performance, specifically for the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions.
ReGAdA obtains state-of-the-art results on the five video-adverb retrieval benchmarks HowTo100M Adverbs [Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic, Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen], VATEX Adverbs [Wang et al.(2019)Wang, Wu, Chen, Li, Wang, and Wang, Doughty and Snoek(2022)], ActivityNet Adverbs [Caba Heilbron et al.(2015)Caba Heilbron, Escorcia, Ghanem, and Carlos Niebles, Doughty and Snoek(2022)], MSR-VTT Adverbs [Xu et al.(2016)Xu, Mei, Yao, and Rui, Doughty and Snoek(2022)], and Adverbs in Recipes [Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic, Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara].
Furthermore, we propose two additional splits for benchmarking the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions on the ActivityNet Adverbs and MSR-VTT Adverbs datasets.


To summarise, we make the following contributions: 1) Our proposed method for video-adverb retrieval uses a text encoder based on a gated residual mechanism and a novel training objective.
2) We evaluate ReGAdA on the challenging unseen video-adverb retrieval task and introduce new benchmark splits, compliant with zero-shot learning principles, for the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions based on the ActivityNet Adverbs and MSR-VTT Adverbs datasets. 3) Our framework outperforms prior work for both the seen and the unseen adverb-action composition retrieval tasks.


##
2 Related work


Fine-grained action understanding in video retrieval.
Early works for video understanding extended retrieval approaches for images to videos, by temporally aggregating frames in a video [Dong et al.(2018)Dong, Li, and Snoek, Otani et al.(2016)Otani, Nakashima, Rahtu, Heikkilä, and Yokoya, Torabi et al.(2016)Torabi, Tandon, and Sigal, Xu et al.(2015b)Xu, Xiong, Chen, and Corso]. With the availability of large video-text datasets [Anne Hendricks et al.(2017)Anne Hendricks, Wang, Shechtman, Sivic, Darrell, and Russell, Krishna et al.(2017)Krishna, Hata, Ren, Fei-Fei, and Carlos Niebles, Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic, Oncescu et al.(2021)Oncescu, Henriques, Liu, Zisserman, and Albanie, Wang et al.(2019)Wang, Wu, Chen, Li, Wang, and Wang, Xu et al.(2016)Xu, Mei, Yao, and Rui, Zhou et al.(2018)Zhou, Xu, and Corso, Bain et al.(2021)Bain, Nagrani, Varol, and Zisserman], different methods focused on sentence disambiguation [Chen et al.(2019)Chen, Ding, Lin, Zhao, and Han, Wray et al.(2019)Wray, Larlus, Csurka, and Damen], self-supervision [Alayrac et al.(2020)Alayrac, Recasens, Schneider, Arandjelović, Ramapuram, De Fauw, Smaira, Dieleman, and Zisserman, Rouditchenko et al.(2021)Rouditchenko, Boggust, Harwath, Chen, Joshi, Thomas, Audhkhasi, Kuehne, Panda, Feris, et al., Zhu and Yang(2020)], weakly supervised learning [Miech et al.(2020)Miech, Alayrac, Smaira, Laptev, Sivic, and Zisserman, Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic, Patrick et al.(2021)Patrick, Huang, Asano, Metze, Hauptmann, Henriques, and Vedaldi], multiple embedding experts [Miech et al.(2018)Miech, Laptev, and Sivic, Liu et al.(2019)Liu, Albanie, Nagrani, and Zisserman, Gabeur et al.(2020)Gabeur, Sun, Alahari, and Schmid], or the use of large pre-trained models [Lei et al.(2021)Lei, Li, Zhou, Gan, Berg, Bansal, and Liu, Luo et al.(2022)Luo, Ji, Zhong, Chen, Lei, Duan, and Li, Wu et al.(2023)Wu, Luo, Fang, Wang, and Ouyang, Park et al.(2022)Park, Shen, Farhadi, Darrell, Choi, and Rohrbach].
Video-action retrieval specifically aims at retrieving videos based on an action, e.g\bmvaOneDotusing a verb to describe the same [Hahn et al.(2019)Hahn, Silva, and Rehg, Wray and Damen(2019)].
Moreover, [Chen et al.(2020)Chen, Zhao, Jin, and Wu, Wray et al.(2019)Wray, Larlus, Csurka, and Damen, Xu et al.(2015b)Xu, Xiong, Chen, and Corso, Zhukov et al.(2019)Zhukov, Alayrac, Cinbis, Fouhey, Laptev, and Sivic, Ge et al.(2022)Ge, Ge, Liu, Li, Shan, Qie, and Luo] use nouns in addition to verbs for video-text retrieval. In a more general setting, [Momeni et al.(2023)Momeni, Caron, Nagrani, Zisserman, and Schmid] recently proposed to use a large language model to generate modified captions to improve verb understanding in video-language models. Different to these methods, we focus on adverbs in the video-adverb retrieval task.


Video-adverb retrieval.
The video-adverb retrieval task was introduced by [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] along with the HowTo100M Adverbs dataset. [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] learns a shared representation between videos and adverbs, modelling adverb information as learned linear transformations on action class label word embeddings, similar to [Nagarajan and Grauman(2018)] for object attributes. Unlike [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen], we choose to utilise semantic information from adverb embeddings in addition to action embeddings for modelling adverb-action compositions.
[Doughty and Snoek(2022)] extends [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] to the low-data regime with pseudo-labelling.
The recently proposed [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara] tackles the task either as a classification or regression problem. Its video encoder builds on [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] with an additional projection following the attention while keeping the text representations frozen. The classification variant is trained with a cross-entropy loss for adverb classification, while the regression variant uses a regression target describing the change an adverb induced in an action embedding.
Different from [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara], we aim at learning the adverb-action representations and the video representations in a shared embedding space. Formulating the task as an alignment problem in a shared embedding space combined with compositional adverb-action representations significantly boosts the performance for video-adverb retrieval.


Learning with object attributes.
Approaches for learning object-attribute pairs from images can be broadly categorized into classification [Misra et al.(2017)Misra, Gupta, and Hebert, Nagarajan and Grauman(2018), Li et al.(2020)Li, Xu, Mao, and Lu, Mancini et al.(2021)Mancini, Naeem, Xian, and Akata, Naeem et al.(2021)Naeem, Xian, Tombari, and Akata] and retrieval approaches [Borth et al.(2013)Borth, Ji, Chen, Breuel, and Chang, Chen and Grauman(2014), Isola et al.(2015)Isola, Lim, and Adelson, Nan et al.(2019)Nan, Liu, Zheng, and Zhu, Wang and Ji(2013), Wang and Mori(2010), Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays].
Our adverb-action compositions are most closely related to [Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays], which proposed a residual gating mechanism for learning compositional image-text embeddings. This mechanism proved particularly useful for retrieving images using both an image and a text query, the text describing a desired modification of the query image. We adapt a similar residual gating mechanism for learning compositional adverb-action embeddings by aligning the composition with action-focused video embeddings.


##
3 ReGAdA framework for video-adverb retrieval


*[Figure: Figure 1: Overview of our ReGAdA framework for video-adverb retrieval. Our framework composes adverb-action embeddings with a gated residual between t]*


In this section, we provide details about our proposed ReGAdA framework for video-adverb retrieval which is visualised in Fig. 1. We first
describe the video-adverb retrieval task, and then provide details about our framework. Finally, we detail our training objective and the inference procedure for retrieval.


Task setting and dataset.
The adverb-to-video retrieval task aims at retrieving matching videos from a pool of videos for a given adverb. Similarly, for the video-to-adverb retrieval task, given a video, the aim is to retrieve the adverb that best describes the action depicted in the video from a pool of pre-set adverbs.
We denote a dataset with `N` samples, `A` action classes and `V` adverb classes by `\mathcal{D}=\{\mathcal{X}_{[i]},y_{[i]}\}_{i=1}^{N}` , consisting of video data `\mathcal{X}_{[i]}` , and ground-truth action and adverb labels `y_{[i]}=\{a_{[i]},v_{[i]}\}` with one-hot encodings for the action _{[i]}\in\mathbb{R}^{{A}}` and adverb `v_{[i]}\in\mathbb{R}^{{V}}` .
We define the sets of possible actions and adverbs as `\mathcal{A}` and `\mathcal{V}` . The set of all possible adverb-action combinations is
 `\mathcal{C}=\mathcal{V}\times\mathcal{A}` .


Our ReGAdA framework learns to align video and adverb-action representations in a joint embedding space. It generates compositional textual representations for adverb-action pairs using a text encoder. Additionally, the visual information is processed in a video encoder to obtain visual representations that contain information about the adverb associated with a given action.
In the following, we describe how we obtain class label embeddings for the actions and adverbs, and how the video and text encoders process the video features and class label embeddings.


Residually-gated adverb-action embeddings.
We obtain word embeddings for the action \in\mathcal{A}` and for the adverb `v\in\mathcal{V}` from a pre-trained language encoder `h_{txt}` , giving `\theta_{v}=h_{txt}(v)` , and `\theta_{a}=h_{txt}(a)` with `\theta_{a},\theta_{v}\in\mathbb{R}^{d_{\theta}}` .
We then apply two linear maps `W_{txt_{a}},W_{txt_{v}}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{\theta}}\xrightarrow{}\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}` , such that `\phi_{a}=W_{{txt}_{a}}(\theta_{a})` and `\phi_{v}=W_{{txt}_{v}}(\theta_{v})` .
The action and adverb embeddings are then further processed jointly in our text encoder. Additionally, the action word embedding `\theta_{a}` serves as a query vector in the video encoder’s attention for generating an action-focused video embedding.


Our text encoder uses a residual gating mechanism which is based on [Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays]. Given `\phi_{a}` and `\phi_{v_{j}}` as inputs, the output of the text encoder is defined as:
[table]


where `j\in\{1,\cdots,V\}` , `\omega_{g}` , `\omega_{r}` are learnable scalar weights for balancing the gating mechanism and the residual, `\odot` is an element-wise product, and `\sigma` the sigmoid function.
 `W_{res}` and `W_{gate}` are modelled using MLPs with `N_{r}` and `N_{g}` layers respectively. For those, the input consisting of adverb and action embeddings, is first passed through a concatenation operator and batch normalisation [Ioffe and Szegedy(2015)] is applied. The subsequent layers consist of a linear map followed by dropout [Srivastava et al.(2014)Srivastava, Hinton, Krizhevsky, Sutskever, and Salakhutdinov] with probability `drop_{g}` and a Leaky ReLU [Xu et al.(2015a)Xu, Wang, Chen, and Li].
The final layer is a linear projection to `\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}` .


We tackle video-adverb retrieval by aligning text and videos in a learned shared embedding space. Our residual gating mechanism models the composition as a transformation of the adverb embedding based on the action. The gating mechanism thereby allows to retain information from adverbs when actions do not provide useful semantic information.


Action-focused video embeddings.
A pre-trained video classification network `h_{vid}` is used to extract a sequence of visual features `\bm{x}_{[i]}=\{x_{1},...,x_{t},...,x_{T}\}_{i}` , where `\bm{x}_{[i]}=h_{vid}(\mathcal{X}_{[i]})` and `x_{t}\in\mathbb{R}^{d_{x}}` . We use `T` to denote the number of temporal segments in a video clip.


Given a sequence of video features `\bm{x}_{[i]}` and its associated action word embedding `\theta_{a_{[i]}}` (for easier readability, we omit the subscripts [i]), we obtain action-focused video embeddings using a similar mechanism as the one proposed in [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen].
The video embeddings are obtained using weak action-level ground-truth in the multi-head attention mechanism [Vaswani et al.(2017)Vaswani, Shazeer, Parmar, Uszkoreit, Jones, Gomez, Kaiser, and Polosukhin]. The action word embedding `\theta_{a}` serves as the query in the attention to focus on parts of the video that are relevant to the given action, and ignore the temporal segments that may be relevant to other actions.


For the multi-head attention, we map the video features `\{x_{t}\}_{t\in[1,T]}` to keys and values using linear mappings `W_{k}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{x}}\xrightarrow{}\mathbb{R}^{d_{head_{x}}H_{x}}` , `W_{v}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{x}}\xrightarrow{}\mathbb{R}^{d_{head_{x}}H_{x}}` with `H_{x}` heads and a dimension of `d_{head_{x}}` per head. We also map the action word embeddings `\theta_{a}` to queries with `W_{q}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{\theta}}\xrightarrow{}\mathbb{R}^{d_{head_{x}}H_{x}}` .
For each attention head `j` , we have
[table]


where `g^{DL}_{attn}` denotes dropout with probability `drop_{attn}` .


We apply a linear mapping `W_{attn}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{head_{x}}H_{x}}\rightarrow\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}` to aggregate the per-head attention giving the output video embedding `o_{attn}=W_{attn}([p^{1}_{attn},\cdots,p^{H}_{attn}])` .
The final output is obtained with an MLP, `W_{proj}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}\rightarrow\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}` ,
[table]


where each of the `N_{proj}` layers of `W_{proj}` consists of a linear layer `W_{proj}^{l}:\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}\rightarrow\mathbb{R}^{d_{dim}}` , layer normalisation [Ba et al.(2016)Ba, Kiros, and Hinton] `g_{proj}^{LN}` , ReLU [Nair and Hinton(2010)] `g_{proj}^{ReLU}` , and dropout `g_{proj}^{DL}` with probability `drop_{proj}` .


Training objectives.
Our ReGAdA framework is trained with triplet losses based on [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] and with a direct regression loss between the video and text embeddings.
We consider the triplet loss function rip(a,p,n)=max(0,\|a-p\|_{2}-\|a-n\|_{2}+\mu)` , with the anchor embedding ` , the embeddings for the positive and negative samples `p` and ` , and the margin `\mu` .
The action triplet loss encourages the alignment of the video representation `o_{video}` and text embeddings with the matching action as opposed to a sampled negative action `\phi_{\bar{a}}` . For this, we use the video embedding `o_{{video}}` as the anchor, the text embedding with ground truth action `\phi_{a}` and adverb `\phi_{v}` as the positive sample, and the text embedding of the same adverb but different action `\phi_{\bar{a}_{i}}` as a negative:
[table]


We use an adverb triplet loss to push text embeddings containing the adverb antonym `\phi_{\bar{v}}` away from the ground-truth text embedding:
[table]


By restricting the negative samples for adverbs to their antonyms, the loss does not punish potential ambiguities of actions in videos (e.g\bmvaOneDota drawer being opened slowly can at the same time be opened partially but not quickly).
Our regression loss directly minimises the distance between the output video and text embeddings:
[table]


The final loss is computed as the weighted sum of the above losses according to
[table]


with hyperparameters `\lambda_{a}` , `\lambda_{v},\lambda_{reg}\in\mathbb{R}` .


Retrieving adverbs and videos (inference).
Similar to [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen], we evaluate our method on adverb-to-video and video-to-adverb retrieval given the ground-truth action ` . For video-to-adverb retrieval, given a video `\bm{x}` and action query ` , we embed the video to obtain `o_{video}` , and we obtain embeddings for `j` adverb-action combinations `o_{txt_{j}}` for `j\in\{1,\cdots,V\}` . Using the cosine similarity metric we rank all the text embeddings `o_{txt_{j}}` by their similarity to the query video embedding `o_{video}` and we consider the highest-ranked pair as the retrieved adverb.


For adverb-to-video retrieval, given an adverb `v` and action ` that are embedded to `o_{txt}` , we define the set of test videos containing action ` as `\Gamma` . We rank all video embeddings `o_{video_{j}}` for videos in `\Gamma` using the similarity computed between each `o_{video_{j}}` and `o_{txt}` and select the video which is closest to `o_{txt}` .


##
4 Video-adverb retrieval benchmarks


In this section, we provide details about the datasets used in our experiments. In particular, we use five datasets for video-adverb retrieval. Furthermore, we propose two new dataset splits for the task of retrieving adverbs from videos for unseen adverb-action compositions.


Video-adverb retrieval datasets.
HowTo100M Adverbs [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] consists of 5,824 video clips with annotations for 6 adverbs and 72 actions. In the following, we refer to HowTo100M Adverbs as HowTo100M.
The recently proposed Adverbs in Recipes dataset has 10 adverbs, 48 actions and 7,003 videos.
VATEX Adverbs [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] dataset has, with 34 adverbs and 135 actions, the largest variety of annotated adverbs and actions, consisting of 14,617 videos. We refer to VATEX Adverbs as VATEX. ActivityNet Adverbs [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] consists of 3,099 videos with 20 adverbs and 114 actions. We refer to it as ActivityNet. MSR-VTT Adverbs [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] is made up of 1,824 videos with 18 adverbs and 106 actions. In the following, we call this dataset MSR-VTT.


Unseen adverb-action compositions splits.
We strive to explore the ability to recognise adverbs for novel adverb-action combinations.
[Doughty and Snoek(2022)] proposed a dataset split for unseen compositions at test time for the VATEX dataset.
Using the available videos in VATEX from [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara], we replicate this split for the S3D video and text features used in this work, by omitting unavailable videos.
We additionally propose new splits for unseen compositions on the ActivityNet and MSR-VTT datasets. We exclude HowTo100M Adverbs and Adverbs in Recipes, as both are subsets of HowTo100M which was used for pre-training the text and S3D video model. Hence, this would not comply with zero-shot learning principles.


To create splits for ActivityNet and MSR-VTT, we follow the protocol in [Doughty and Snoek(2022)]: We first split the set of possible adverb-action compositions into two non-overlapping sets, so that all adverbs and all actions are present in both sets, but individual compositions are only contained in one of the sets.
We additionally constrain the compositions for each set so that for a given adverb-action composition, its antonym-action composition is assigned to the same set.


*[Figure: Table 1: Statistics of the proposed dataset splits for the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions on the MSR-VTT and ActivityNet datasets. (tr]*


We assign the videos from one of the sets to the training set and split the videos of the other half into two different sets, assigning half of the instances in each composition to the test set and the other to an unlabelled set (which is used to train [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] with pseudo-labelling).
Table 1 shows details about the replicated split for VATEX, and for our proposed splits based on ActivityNet and MSR-VTT (full details are provided in the supplementary material).


##
5 Experiments


In this section, we provide details about the baselines, implementation details, and evaluation metrics used in this work. Video-adverb retrieval results on five benchmarks are presented in Section 5.1, and we provide model ablation studies in Section 5.2. In Section 5.4, we investigate the transfer to unseen adverb-action compositions during inference.


Baselines.
We report results for the Prior and S3D pre-trained baselines from [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara]. Prior does not require any training but it uses the data distribution and adverb frequency for scoring.
S3D pre-trained is also training-free and uses the similarity between frozen video and text representations from the S3D backbone jointly trained on video and text.
TIRG [Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays] employs a similar residual gating mechanism as ReGAdA for image-text retrieval. To adapt it to the video domain, we use the same video encoder as our method. Different from ReGAdA, it models the composition as a transformation of the action embedding and uses a classification-based training objective.
We also compare our framework to Action Modifier [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] and to the recently proposed AC frameworks [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara]. AC tackles the task either as a classification (ACcls) or regression (ACreg) problem.


Implementation details.
We use the video and text features provided by [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara] which were extracted using a frozen S3D model that was jointly pre-trained on video-text pairs from HowTo100M [Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic]. Here, `d_{x}=1024` , `T` is the length of the video in seconds, and `d_{\theta}=512` .
ReGAdA uses an internal embedding dimension `d_{dim}=400` .
We use `N_{g}=2` , except for HowTo100M and Adverbs in Recipes where `N_{g}=3` and `N_{g}=4` respectively. Additionally, we set `N_{r}=2` except for Adverbs in Recipes where we use `N_{r}=3` . The dropout probability in the residual gating mechanism is `drop_{g}=0.6` for all datasets but Adverbs in Recipes and HowTo100M where we use `drop_{g}=0.7` . The loss hyperparameters are chosen as `\lambda_{a}=1` for all datasets and `\lambda_{v}=2.0` for all datasets, except for `\lambda_{v}=1.5` on Adverbs in Recipes. Furthermore, we use a `\lambda_{reg}=1.0` for all dataset except for HowTo100M where `\lambda_{reg}=1.5` .
We train with a batch size of `512` , and employ the Adam [Kingma and Ba(2014)] optimizer with `\beta_{1}=0.9` , `\beta_{2}=0.999` , and weight decay `10^{-5}` . Our method is trained for 2000 epochs using a learning rate of `10^{-5}` for all datasets with the exception of HowTo100M where we use `3*10^{-5}` . We follow [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara], and train all baselines for 1000 epochs using a learning rate of `10^{-4}` .
We conduct all experiments on a single Nvidia 2080-Ti GPU.


Evaluation metrics.
We follow [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara], and report mean Average Precision (mAP) scores for adverb-to-video-retrieval, in particular mAP M (“adverb-to-video (all)” in [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen]) and mAP W. mAP M is computed by ranking videos that contain the same ground-truth action according to their similarity to the adverb-action text embedding.
For mAP W, the class scores are reweighed according to their support size in the test set.
For video-to-adverb retrieval, we report binary antonym accuracy Acc-A. This is equivalent to ranking adverb-action embeddings according to their similarity to the embedded video and calculating the mAP by restricting the set of adverbs to the target adverb and its antonym (“video-to-adverb (antonym)” in [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen]).
Similar to [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara], we report the best metrics independently. This means that models corresponding to each result may originate from different epochs.


###
5.1 Comparison with the state of the art


*[Figure: Table 2: Results for adverb-to-video (mAP W/M) and video-to-adverb retrieval (Acc-A). Higher is better for all metrics. † refers to updated results pr]*


In Table 2, we present adverb-to-video retrieval and video-to-adverb retrieval results with our ReGAdA framework on five benchmark datasets. It can be observed that ReGAdA outperforms the baselines across all datasets. In particular, we see more significant improvements of our framework over the prior methods for the adverb-to-video retrieval metrics (mAP W and mAP M) compared to video-to-adverb retrieval (Acc-A).
For instance, on the HowTo100M dataset ReGAdA outperforms ACcls for adverb-to-video retrieval with mAP M and mAP W scores of 0.528 and 0.567 compared to 0.420 and 0.562. For the video-to-adverb retrieval measure Acc-A, ReGAdA obtains a score of 0.817 compared to 0.786 with ACreg.


The most recent and strongest competitor [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara] optimises its systems using two different losses. The best results obtained from these two models are reported for each dataset and metric, showing no clear pattern as to which model variant is stronger.
Our ReGAdA framework consistently outperforms both model variants [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara] on all metrics and datasets. We hypothesise that our framework’s strong performance can be attributed to its compositional embeddings which is a key element of ReGAdA.


###
5.2 Model ablations


This section analyses the impact of using different input text information, losses, and components in the text encoder on the overall video-adverb retrieval performance of ReGAdA.


Input to the text encoder.
The gating mechanism in ReGAdA represents the composition as a residual on top of the adverb and allows the adverb information to be retained, leveraging the action as auxiliary information.
We refer to the adverb as the main and the action as the auxiliary modality in ReGAdA.
We investigate if a compositional adverb-action word embedding `\phi_{comp}` , which directly embeds an adverb-action label pair (e.g\bmvaOneDot“cut quickly”) with `h_{text}` , can be used as the main modality instead.
Table 3 shows the impact of using different main and auxiliary modalities.
ReGAdA obtains scores of 0.290 and 0.113 for mAP W and mAP M on VATEX  compared to 0.245 and 0.078 when using `\phi_{a}` as main modality and `\phi_{v}` as auxiliary.
This confirms that capturing information about the adverb is crucial for solving the task.
Acc-A is less affected by the type of input information, ReGAdA obtains 0.817 compared to 0.806 when using `\phi_{comp}` as main and `\phi_{a}` as auxiliary modality. Overall, using `\phi_{v}` as main and `\phi_{a}` as auxiliary modality is most effective across datasets.


Losses.
In Table 4, we show the impact of our three loss functions, `\mathcal{L}_{trip,a}` , `\mathcal{L}_{trip,v}` , and `\mathcal{L}_{reg}` .
On VATEX, ReGAdA obtains a mAP W and mAP M of 0.290 and 0.113 compared to 0.182 and 0.074 when using only `\mathcal{L}_{reg}` . For Acc-A, ReGAdA obtains a score of 0.817 compared to 0.756 for `\mathcal{L}_{trip,a}+\mathcal{L}_{trip,v}` . The regression loss `\mathcal{L}_{reg}` boosts the performance on all datasets significantly. Our novel loss combination gives the best video-adverb retrieval performance by better aligning adverb-action compositions and video representations. Previous work either only used triplet losses [Doughty and Snoek(2022), Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen] or used a fixed textual regression target [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara].


*[Figure: Table 3: Effect of using different types of input information for the text encoder in ReGAdA.]*


*[Figure: Table 4: Impact of using different losses to train ReGAdA. For losses that are not used, the corresponding scalar weight in `\mathcal{L}` is set to ]*


Residual gating mechanism in the text encoder. Table 5 analyses the contributions of the components of the residual gating mechanism, such as the residual branch, the sigmoid, and weight sharing between the gated and residual branches. On VATEX, ReGAdA achieves the best results. Interestingly, sharing weights between the gated and residual branches yields only slightly weaker results, with a mAP-W score of 0.288 compared to 0.290 with ReGAdA. For mAP M and Acc-A, ReGAdA obtains 0.113 and 0.817 compared to 0.111 and 0.815 when not using the residual. While some configurations can achieve better results in selected metrics, ReGAdA yields consistent state-of-the-art results across all metrics, confirming our model design choices.


*[Figure: Table 5: Impact of different components in the residually-gated text encoder. R: With residual branch `W_{res}` ; `\sigma` : With sigmoid; SW: Shari]*


###
5.3 Qualitative Results


We show qualitative results for ReGAdA on the VATEX dataset in Figure 2.
In particular, success cases for ReGAdA which ACreg retrieved a wrong adverb are shown below in the first and second columns.
The third and fourth columns show videos with actions performed forwards/backwards, and upwards/downwards but labelled with only one of the adverbs. This makes both outputs plausible.
The right-most column shows an example of a wrongly labelled video for which our model retrieves the correct adverb. This confirms ReGAdA’s strong generalisation capabilities.
In general, we observe that ReGAdA better captures directional movements or speed than ACreg. It is also superior at disentangling the diverse visual effect of adverbs on different actions (e.g\bmvaOneDotcrawl vs. bend backwards). This can potentially be attributed to the compositional nature of our learned adverb-action representations.


*[Figure: Figure 2: Example results for ReGAdA (Ours) on the VATEX dataset compared to those from ACreg. The two left examples are success cases for our model. ]*


###
5.4 Generalisation to unseen adverb-action compositions


We additionally evaluate the ReGAdA framework on video-to-adverb retrieval for unseen adverb-action compositions, i.e. compositions that were not seen during training.
We consider the existing VATEX benchmark and our proposed MSR-VTT and ActivityNet splits for this task (see Section 4).
Following [Doughty and Snoek(2022)], we report binary antonym classification accuracy for video-to-adverb retrieval.
We provide additional baseline results with the CLIP [Radford et al.(2021)Radford, Kim, Hallacy, Ramesh, Goh, Agarwal, Sastry, Askell, Mishkin, Clark, et al.] model (details for this are provided in the supplementary material).
In Table 6, we observe that ReGAdA significantly outperforms ACreg  on VATEX with an accuracy of 61.7 compared to 54.9.
On ActivityNet, ReGAdA obtains a score of 58.4, outperforming [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] with a score of 57.0.
This is impressive given that [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] was additionally trained on


*[Figure: Table 6: Retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions on the VATEX, ActivityNet and MSR-VTT benchmarks. [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] uses pseudo-labell]*


pseudo-labelled data.
CLIP obtains an antonym accuracy of only 54.5 on VATEX, showing a limited fine-grained retrieval capability of CLIP.
We provide a further analysis of exploiting different word embeddings for unseen compositions in the supplementary material.
Overall, our model yields better results than any prior framework for both seen (c.f. Table 2) and unseen compositions.


##
6 Conclusion


In this work, we proposed a framework for video-adverb retrieval that uses a residual gating mechanism to generate compositional adverb-action representations from adverb and action word embeddings. Along with a novel training objective, our model achieves state-of-the-art results on five video-adverb retrieval benchmarks.
Moreover, we introduce two additional dataset splits to benchmark the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions. Our proposed framework outperforms all prior works on this task, confirming that our text encoder results in better generalisation abilities.


#### Acknowledgements:


This work was supported by BMBF FKZ: 01IS18039A, DFG: SFB 1233 TP 17 - project number 276693517, by the ERC (853489 - DEXIM), and by EXC number 2064/1 – project number 390727645. The authors thank the International Max Planck Research School for Intelligent Systems (IMPRS-IS) for supporting T. Hummel and O.-B. Mercea. Furthermore, we would like to thank Massimiliano Mancini and Shyamgopal Karthik for helpful discussions and proofreading.


## References


[Alayrac et al.(2020)Alayrac, Recasens, Schneider, Arandjelović, Ramapuram, De Fauw, Smaira, Dieleman, and Zisserman]

Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Adria Recasens, Rosalia Schneider, Relja Arandjelović, Jason Ramapuram, Jeffrey De Fauw, Lucas Smaira, Sander Dieleman, and Andrew Zisserman.


Self-supervised multimodal versatile networks.


NeurIPS, 2020.


[Alhersh et al.(2021)Alhersh, Stuckenschmidt, Rehman, and Belhaouari]

Taha Alhersh, Heiner Stuckenschmidt, Atiq Ur Rehman, and Samir Brahim Belhaouari.


Learning human activity from visual data using deep learning.


IEEE Access, 2021.


[Anne Hendricks et al.(2017)Anne Hendricks, Wang, Shechtman, Sivic, Darrell, and Russell]

Lisa Anne Hendricks, Oliver Wang, Eli Shechtman, Josef Sivic, Trevor Darrell, and Bryan Russell.


Localizing moments in video with natural language.


In ICCV, 2017.


[Ba et al.(2016)Ba, Kiros, and Hinton]

Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton.


Layer normalization.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.06450, 2016.


[Bain et al.(2021)Bain, Nagrani, Varol, and Zisserman]

Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Gül Varol, and Andrew Zisserman.


Frozen in time: A joint video and image encoder for end-to-end retrieval.


In ICCV, 2021.


[Bojanowski et al.(2017)Bojanowski, Grave, Joulin, and Mikolov]

Piotr Bojanowski, Edouard Grave, Armand Joulin, and Tomas Mikolov.


Enriching word vectors with subword information.


In TACL, 2017.


[Borth et al.(2013)Borth, Ji, Chen, Breuel, and Chang]

Damian Borth, Rongrong Ji, Tao Chen, Thomas Breuel, and Shih-Fu Chang.


Large-scale visual sentiment ontology and detectors using adjective noun pairs.


In ACM MM, 2013.


[Brown et al.(2020)Brown, Mann, Ryder, Subbiah, Kaplan, Dhariwal, Neelakantan, Shyam, Sastry, Askell, et al.]

Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al.


Language models are few-shot learners.


NeurIPS, 2020.


[Caba Heilbron et al.(2015)Caba Heilbron, Escorcia, Ghanem, and Carlos Niebles]

Fabian Caba Heilbron, Victor Escorcia, Bernard Ghanem, and Juan Carlos Niebles.


Activitynet: A large-scale video benchmark for human activity understanding.


In CVPR, 2015.


[Chen and Grauman(2014)]

Chao-Yeh Chen and Kristen Grauman.


Inferring analogous attributes.


In CVPR, 2014.


[Chen et al.(2019)Chen, Ding, Lin, Zhao, and Han]

Hui Chen, Guiguang Ding, Zijia Lin, Sicheng Zhao, and Jungong Han.


Cross-modal image-text retrieval with semantic consistency.


In ACM MM, 2019.


[Chen et al.(2020)Chen, Zhao, Jin, and Wu]

Shizhe Chen, Yida Zhao, Qin Jin, and Qi Wu.


Fine-grained video-text retrieval with hierarchical graph reasoning.


In CVPR, 2020.


[Dong et al.(2018)Dong, Li, and Snoek]

Jianfeng Dong, Xirong Li, and Cees GM Snoek.


Predicting visual features from text for image and video caption retrieval.


In IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 2018.


[Doughty and Snoek(2022)]

Hazel Doughty and Cees GM Snoek.


How do you do it? Fine-grained action understanding with pseudo-adverbs.


In CVPR, 2022.


[Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen]

Hazel Doughty, Ivan Laptev, Walterio Mayol-Cuevas, and Dima Damen.


Action Modifiers: Learning from Adverbs in Instructional Videos.


In CVPR, 2020.


[Gabeur et al.(2020)Gabeur, Sun, Alahari, and Schmid]

Valentin Gabeur, Chen Sun, Karteek Alahari, and Cordelia Schmid.


Multi-modal transformer for video retrieval.


In ECCV, 2020.


[Ge et al.(2022)Ge, Ge, Liu, Li, Shan, Qie, and Luo]

Yuying Ge, Yixiao Ge, Xihui Liu, Dian Li, Ying Shan, Xiaohu Qie, and Ping Luo.


Bridging video-text retrieval with multiple choice questions.


In CVPR, 2022.


[Hahn et al.(2019)Hahn, Silva, and Rehg]

Meera Hahn, Andrew Silva, and James M Rehg.


Action2vec: A crossmodal embedding approach to action learning.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.00484, 2019.


[Ioffe and Szegedy(2015)]

Sergey Ioffe and Christian Szegedy.


Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift.


In ICML, 2015.


[Isola et al.(2015)Isola, Lim, and Adelson]

Phillip Isola, Joseph J Lim, and Edward H Adelson.


Discovering states and transformations in image collections.


In CVPR, 2015.


[Kingma and Ba(2014)]

Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba.


Adam: A method for stochastic optimization.


arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.


[Krishna et al.(2017)Krishna, Hata, Ren, Fei-Fei, and Carlos Niebles]

Ranjay Krishna, Kenji Hata, Frederic Ren, Li Fei-Fei, and Juan Carlos Niebles.


Dense-captioning events in videos.


In ICCV, 2017.


[Lei et al.(2021)Lei, Li, Zhou, Gan, Berg, Bansal, and Liu]

Jie Lei, Linjie Li, Luowei Zhou, Zhe Gan, Tamara L Berg, Mohit Bansal, and Jingjing Liu.


Less is more: Clipbert for video-and-language learning via sparse sampling.


In CVPR, 2021.


[Li et al.(2020)Li, Xu, Mao, and Lu]

Yong-Lu Li, Yue Xu, Xiaohan Mao, and Cewu Lu.


Symmetry and group in attribute-object compositions.


In CVPR, 2020.


[Liu et al.(2019)Liu, Albanie, Nagrani, and Zisserman]

Yang Liu, Samuel Albanie, Arsha Nagrani, and Andrew Zisserman.


Use what you have: Video retrieval using representations from collaborative experts.


BMVC, 2019.


[Luo et al.(2022)Luo, Ji, Zhong, Chen, Lei, Duan, and Li]

Huaishao Luo, Lei Ji, Ming Zhong, Yang Chen, Wen Lei, Nan Duan, and Tianrui Li.


Clip4clip: An empirical study of clip for end to end video clip retrieval and captioning.


Neurocomputing, 2022.


[Mancini et al.(2021)Mancini, Naeem, Xian, and Akata]

Massimiliano Mancini, Muhammad Ferjad Naeem, Yongqin Xian, and Zeynep Akata.


Open world compositional zero-shot learning.


In CVPR, 2021.


[Mercea et al.(2022a)Mercea, Hummel, Koepke, and Akata]

Otniel-Bogdan Mercea, Thomas Hummel, A. Sophia Koepke, and Zeynep Akata.


Temporal and cross-modal attention for audio-visual zero-shot learning.


In ECCV, 2022a.


[Mercea et al.(2022b)Mercea, Riesch, Koepke, and Akata]

Otniel-Bogdan Mercea, Lukas Riesch, A. Sophia Koepke, and Zeynep Akata.


Audio-visual generalised zero-shot learning with cross-modal attention and language.


In CVPR, 2022b.


[Miech et al.(2018)Miech, Laptev, and Sivic]

Antoine Miech, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic.


Learning a text-video embedding from incomplete and heterogeneous data.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.02516, 2018.


[Miech et al.(2019)Miech, Zhukov, Alayrac, Tapaswi, Laptev, and Sivic]

Antoine Miech, Dimitri Zhukov, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Makarand Tapaswi, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic.


Howto100m: Learning a text-video embedding by watching hundred million narrated video clips.


In ICCV, 2019.


[Miech et al.(2020)Miech, Alayrac, Smaira, Laptev, Sivic, and Zisserman]

Antoine Miech, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Lucas Smaira, Ivan Laptev, Josef Sivic, and Andrew Zisserman.


End-to-end learning of visual representations from uncurated instructional videos.


In CVPR, 2020.


[Mikolov et al.(2013)Mikolov, Chen, Corrado, and Dean]

Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean.


Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space.


In ICLR, 2013.


[Misra et al.(2017)Misra, Gupta, and Hebert]

Ishan Misra, Abhinav Gupta, and Martial Hebert.


From red wine to red tomato: Composition with context.


In CVPR, 2017.


[Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara]

Davide Moltisanti, Frank Keller, Hakan Bilen, and Laura Sevilla-Lara.


Learning action changes by measuring verb-adverb textual relationships.


In CVPR, 2023.


[Momeni et al.(2023)Momeni, Caron, Nagrani, Zisserman, and Schmid]

Liliane Momeni, Mathilde Caron, Arsha Nagrani, Andrew Zisserman, and Cordelia Schmid.


Verbs in action: Improving verb understanding in video-language models.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.06708, 2023.


[Naeem et al.(2021)Naeem, Xian, Tombari, and Akata]

Muhammad Ferjad Naeem, Yongqin Xian, Federico Tombari, and Zeynep Akata.


Learning graph embeddings for compositional zero-shot learning.


In CVPR, 2021.


[Nagarajan and Grauman(2018)]

Tushar Nagarajan and Kristen Grauman.


Attributes as operators: factorizing unseen attribute-object compositions.


In ECCV, 2018.


[Nair and Hinton(2010)]

Vinod Nair and Geoffrey E Hinton.


Rectified linear units improve restricted boltzmann machines.


In ICML, 2010.


[Nan et al.(2019)Nan, Liu, Zheng, and Zhu]

Zhixiong Nan, Yang Liu, Nanning Zheng, and Song-Chun Zhu.


Recognizing unseen attribute-object pair with generative model.


In AAAI, 2019.


[Oncescu et al.(2021)Oncescu, Henriques, Liu, Zisserman, and Albanie]

Andreea-Maria Oncescu, Joao F Henriques, Yang Liu, Andrew Zisserman, and Samuel Albanie.


Queryd: A video dataset with high-quality text and audio narrations.


In ICASSP, 2021.


[Otani et al.(2016)Otani, Nakashima, Rahtu, Heikkilä, and Yokoya]

Mayu Otani, Yuta Nakashima, Esa Rahtu, Janne Heikkilä, and Naokazu Yokoya.


Learning joint representations of videos and sentences with web image search.


In ECCV, 2016.


[Park et al.(2022)Park, Shen, Farhadi, Darrell, Choi, and Rohrbach]

Jae Sung Park, Sheng Shen, Ali Farhadi, Trevor Darrell, Yejin Choi, and Anna Rohrbach.


Exposing the limits of video-text models through contrast sets.


In ACL, 2022.


[Patrick et al.(2021)Patrick, Huang, Asano, Metze, Hauptmann, Henriques, and Vedaldi]

Mandela Patrick, Po-Yao Huang, Yuki Asano, Florian Metze, Alexander G Hauptmann, Joao F. Henriques, and Andrea Vedaldi.


Support-set bottlenecks for video-text representation learning.


In ICLR, 2021.


[Pennington et al.(2014)Pennington, Socher, and Manning]

Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning.


GloVe: Global vectors for word representation.


In EMNLP, 2014.


[Radford et al.(2021)Radford, Kim, Hallacy, Ramesh, Goh, Agarwal, Sastry, Askell, Mishkin, Clark, et al.]

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al.


Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision.


In ICML, 2021.


[Rouditchenko et al.(2021)Rouditchenko, Boggust, Harwath, Chen, Joshi, Thomas, Audhkhasi, Kuehne, Panda, Feris, et al.]

Andrew Rouditchenko, Angie Boggust, David Harwath, Brian Chen, Dhiraj Joshi, Samuel Thomas, Kartik Audhkhasi, Hilde Kuehne, Rameswar Panda, Rogerio Feris, et al.


AVLnet: Learning audio-visual language representations from instructional videos.


In Interspeech, 2021.


[Srivastava et al.(2014)Srivastava, Hinton, Krizhevsky, Sutskever, and Salakhutdinov]

Nitish Srivastava, Geoffrey Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov.


Dropout: a simple way to prevent neural networks from overfitting.


JMLR, 2014.


[Tanberk et al.(2020)Tanberk, Kilimci, Tükel, Uysal, and Akyokuş]

Senem Tanberk, Zeynep Hilal Kilimci, Dilek Bilgin Tükel, Mitat Uysal, and Selim Akyokuş.


A hybrid deep model using deep learning and dense optical flow approaches for human activity recognition.


IEEE Access, 2020.


[Torabi et al.(2016)Torabi, Tandon, and Sigal]

Atousa Torabi, Niket Tandon, and Leonid Sigal.


Learning language-visual embedding for movie understanding with natural-language.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08124, 2016.


[Vaswani et al.(2017)Vaswani, Shazeer, Parmar, Uszkoreit, Jones, Gomez, Kaiser, and Polosukhin]

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin.


Attention is all you need.


NeurIPS, 2017.


[Vo et al.(2019)Vo, Jiang, Sun, Murphy, Li, Fei-Fei, and Hays]

Nam Vo, Lu Jiang, Chen Sun, Kevin Murphy, Li-Jia Li, Li Fei-Fei, and James Hays.


Composing text and image for image retrieval-an empirical odyssey.


In CVPR, 2019.


[Wang and Ji(2013)]

Xiaoyang Wang and Qiang Ji.


A unified probabilistic approach modeling relationships between attributes and objects.


In ICCV, 2013.


[Wang et al.(2019)Wang, Wu, Chen, Li, Wang, and Wang]

Xin Wang, Jiawei Wu, Junkun Chen, Lei Li, Yuan-Fang Wang, and William Yang Wang.


Vatex: A large-scale, high-quality multilingual dataset for video-and-language research.


In ICCV, 2019.


[Wang and Mori(2010)]

Yang Wang and Greg Mori.


A discriminative latent model of object classes and attributes.


In ECCV, 2010.


[Wray and Damen(2019)]

Michael Wray and Dima Damen.


Learning visual actions using multiple verb-only labels.


In BMVC, 2019.


[Wray et al.(2019)Wray, Larlus, Csurka, and Damen]

Michael Wray, Diane Larlus, Gabriela Csurka, and Dima Damen.


Fine-grained action retrieval through multiple parts-of-speech embeddings.


In ICCV, 2019.


[Wu et al.(2023)Wu, Luo, Fang, Wang, and Ouyang]

Wenhao Wu, Haipeng Luo, Bo Fang, Jingdong Wang, and Wanli Ouyang.


Cap4Video: What can auxiliary captions do for text-video retrieval?


In CVPR, 2023.


[Xian et al.(2016)Xian, Akata, Sharma, Nguyen, Hein, and Schiele]

Yongqin Xian, Zeynep Akata, Gaurav Sharma, Quynh Nguyen, Matthias Hein, and Bernt Schiele.


Latent embeddings for zero-shot classification.


In CVPR, 2016.


[Xu et al.(2015a)Xu, Wang, Chen, and Li]

Bing Xu, Naiyan Wang, Tianqi Chen, and Mu Li.


Empirical evaluation of rectified activations in convolutional network.


arXiv preprint arXiv:1505.00853, 2015a.


[Xu et al.(2016)Xu, Mei, Yao, and Rui]

Jun Xu, Tao Mei, Ting Yao, and Yong Rui.


Msr-vtt: A large video description dataset for bridging video and language.


In CVPR, 2016.


[Xu et al.(2015b)Xu, Xiong, Chen, and Corso]

Ran Xu, Caiming Xiong, Wei Chen, and Jason Corso.


Jointly modeling deep video and compositional text to bridge vision and language in a unified framework.


In AAAI, 2015b.


[Zhou et al.(2018)Zhou, Xu, and Corso]

Luowei Zhou, Chenliang Xu, and Jason Corso.


Towards automatic learning of procedures from web instructional videos.


In AAAI, 2018.


[Zhu and Yang(2020)]

Linchao Zhu and Yi Yang.


Actbert: Learning global-local video-text representations.


In CVPR, 2020.


[Zhukov et al.(2019)Zhukov, Alayrac, Cinbis, Fouhey, Laptev, and Sivic]

Dimitri Zhukov, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Ramazan Gokberk Cinbis, David Fouhey, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic.


Cross-task weakly supervised learning from instructional videos.


In CVPR, 2019.


\appendixpage\addappheadtotoc


##
Appendix A Dataset splits for unseen adverb-action compositions


In this section, we provide further details about our proposed dataset splits for unseen adverb-action compositions based on the ActivityNet Adverbs [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen, Caba Heilbron et al.(2015)Caba Heilbron, Escorcia, Ghanem, and Carlos Niebles] and MSR-VTT Adverbs [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen, Xu et al.(2016)Xu, Mei, Yao, and Rui] datasets. In Table 7, we include information about the number of unlabelled samples (i.e. videos) and the number of unlabelled pairs (i.e. adverb-action compositions) in the dataset splits.
The unlabelled samples are not used by ReGAdA, but we designed the splits so that we can fairly evaluate previous work [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] that uses unlabelled samples for training. The number of unlabelled samples and unlabelled pairs usually ranges from 30% to 50% of the total number of training samples and training pairs. This is significant, as methods like [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] use more training data than ReGAdA while performing significantly worse as observed in Table 6 in the main paper. We refer to the ActivityNet Adverbs and MSR-VTT Adverbs datasets as ActivityNet and MSR-VTT respectively.


In addition to the ActivityNet Adverbs and MSR-VTT Adverbs datasets, we use the VATEX Adverbs dataset [Wang et al.(2019)Wang, Wu, Chen, Li, Wang, and Wang, Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen], and in particular the corresponding splits for unseen adverb-action compositions introduced in [Doughty and Snoek(2022)]. However, we use the same pre-extracted features as the current state-of-the-art work [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara]. As some of the videos used in the split in [Doughty and Snoek(2022)] are not available anymore, it is not possible to extract S3D features for those. Hence, this resulted in fewer samples in the dataset, the number of training samples being reduced from 6921 to 6603, unlabelled samples from 3469 to 3317, and test samples from 3457 to 3293. In the following, we refer to the VATEX Adverbs dataset as VATEX.


##
Appendix B Exploring the use of different word embeddings for unseen adverb-action compositions


Our ReGAdA framework composes adverb and action text embeddings in a shared embedding space. Specifically, we used a text model that was jointly trained with the S3D video model. In this section, we show results for different choices of word embeddings. Existing and widely-adopted word embeddings like GloVe [Pennington et al.(2014)Pennington, Socher, and Manning], word2vec [Mikolov et al.(2013)Mikolov, Chen, Corrado, and Dean], and fastText [Bojanowski et al.(2017)Bojanowski, Grave, Joulin, and Mikolov] rely on unsupervised learning techniques to generate vector representations of words based on their co-occurrence statistics in a large corpus of text. Specifically, word2vec and GloVe focus on co-occurrences of words, whereas fastText uses co-occurrences of n-gram characters, which can be useful when dealing with rare words.


Prior works on video-adverb retrieval leveraged GloVe embeddings of class labels [Doughty et al.(2020)Doughty, Laptev, Mayol-Cuevas, and Damen, Doughty and Snoek(2022)], while approaches in zero-shot learning commonly use word2vec or fastText embeddings as side information [Xian et al.(2016)Xian, Akata, Sharma, Nguyen, Hein, and Schiele, Mancini et al.(2021)Mancini, Naeem, Xian, and Akata, Naeem et al.(2021)Naeem, Xian, Tombari, and Akata, Mercea et al.(2022b)Mercea, Riesch, Koepke, and Akata, Mercea et al.(2022a)Mercea, Hummel, Koepke, and Akata].


However, recent advances in language modelling have shown impressive progress on a variety of natural language processing tasks. For instance, large language models incorporate contextual information at the sentence level and beyond, which could result in more informative and accurate embeddings.
To investigate their usefulness for our retrieval task, we extract word embeddings with GPT-3 [Brown et al.(2020)Brown, Mann, Ryder, Subbiah, Kaplan, Dhariwal, Neelakantan, Shyam, Sastry, Askell, et al.] using the OpenAI API for the text-embedding-ada-002 model. While word2vec, fastText, and GloVe provide 300-dimensional embeddings, GPT-3 embeddings have a much larger dimension of 1536. All text embeddings are projected to 400-dimensional vectors before being input into the text encoder. For CLIP [Radford et al.(2021)Radford, Kim, Hallacy, Ramesh, Goh, Agarwal, Sastry, Askell, Mishkin, Clark, et al.], we extract visual CLIP features for each second of the video and CLIP text embeddings from the action-adverb labels (e.g\bmvaOneDotcut slowly). We then use the cosine similarity between temporally-averaged frame features and text embeddings for retrieval.


*[Figure: Table 7: Statistics of our dataset splits for the retrieval of unseen adverb-action compositions on the MSR-VTT Adverbs and ActivityNet Adverbs datase]*


*[Figure: Table 8: Effect of using different types of word embeddings in our ReGAdA framework on the performance for retrieving unseen action-adverb composition]*


Table 8 shows that the choice of the text embedding results in significant performance changes, measured by the binary antonym classification accuracy. ReGAdA uses text embeddings jointly trained with the S3D video model like the other baselines (referred to as S3D embeddings in the following), and it is able to outperform all the baselines, as shown in the main paper. However, from Table 8 it can be observed that ReGAdA with S3D embeddings is outperformed by ReGAdA with GPT-3 embeddings on VATEX, leading to a performance of 63.3 compared to 61.7 for S3D embeddings.
GPT-3 embeddings contain more contextual and fine-grained semantic information but suffer from a significant reduction in dimensions in the projection. We find that higher-dimensional text embeddings perform worse when training data is scarce (e.g\bmvaOneDot53.5/60.3 for GPT-3 vs. 58.4/61.0 for S3D on ActivityNet/MSR-VTT), likely caused by a lack of training data to learn the down-projection.
Overall, word2vec, fastText, and GloVe embeddings yield slightly worse results than S3D embeddings across datasets.


##
Appendix C Training without antonyms


In Table 9, we present the video-to-adverb and adverb-to-video retrieval performance when training without antonyms. This task was introduced in [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara].
For the results in the main paper, ReGAdA is trained with antonyms as negative examples in its triplet loss.
As it might not always be feasible to require adverb-action samples that are additionally annotated with an adverb-antonym, this scenario inspects the generalisation capabilities of ReGAdA to dataset settings with fewer constraints.


When training without adverb-antonyms, ReGAdA randomly samples an adverb as a negative sample which is not identical to the positive adverb sample.
As there is no access to information about the adverb-antonym during evaluation, the Acc-A metric cannot be used in this context.


In Table 9 we can observe that ReGAdA outperforms all prior methods for this task across all datasets and metrics
For example, on VATEX ReGAdA obtains a mAP W score of 0.292 compared to 0.283 for ACcls. Moreover, ReGAdA obtains a mAP M score of 0.136 which significantly outperforms ACcls with a score of 0.108.


*[Figure: Table 9: Results without antonyms during training for adverb-to-video retrieval (mAP W/M). Higher is better for all metrics. † refers to updated resul]*


##
Appendix D Comparing ReGAdA with CLIP


In this section, we present additional video-adverb retrieval results with CLIP [Radford et al.(2021)Radford, Kim, Hallacy, Ramesh, Goh, Agarwal, Sastry, Askell, Mishkin, Clark, et al.] in addition to the retrieval results for unseen compositions (see Table 8).


Similar to the experiment on unseen compositions (see Section B), we use the cosine similarity between temporally-averaged CLIP frame features and text embeddings for the retrieval with CLIP.
Additionally, we examine the impact of replacing the S3D video/text embeddings of ReGAdA with CLIP embeddings ( `\textsc{ReGAdA}_{\text{CLIP}}` ).


*[Figure: Table 10: Comparing ReGAdA with CLIP as a baseline, and when replacing ReGAdA’s S3D video/text embeddings with CLIP embeddings ( `\textsc{ReGAdA}_{\te]*


In Table 10, we can observe that CLIP performs marginally better than the S3D pre-trained baseline.
Using CLIP features in ReGAdA improves adverb retrieval (Acc-A) slightly on ActivityNet and VATEX. However, `\textsc{ReGAdA}_{\text{CLIP}}` is worse than ReGAdA for video retrieval, likely caused by inferior visual features when extracting those only from a few video frames.


##
Appendix E Seed experiments


In Table 11, we provide experimental results that test the robustness of our model with regard to the seeds used, as done in [Moltisanti et al.(2023)Moltisanti, Keller, Bilen, and Sevilla-Lara]. To compute these numbers, we use four seeds and compute the mean and the standard deviation over these runs. It can be observed that ReGAdA achieves a higher mean than the other baselines. Furthermore, the standard deviation with our model is relatively low.


*[Figure: Table 11: Performance of our ReGAdA framework on the Adverbs in Recipes dataset when using multiple random seeds. † refers to updated results provided]*


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►