# Dynamic Retrieval-Augmented Generation

**arXiv ID**: 2312.08976v2
**Authors**: Anton Shapkin, Denis Litvinov, Yaroslav Zharov, Egor Bogomolov, Timur Galimzyanov
**Published**: 2023-12-14
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08976v2
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2312.08976] Entity-Augmented Code Generation


# Entity-Augmented Code Generation


Anton Shapkin\equalcontrib,
Denis Litvinov\equalcontrib,
Timofey Bryksin


###### Abstract


The current state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) are effective in generating high-quality text and encapsulating a broad spectrum of world knowledge. However, these models often hallucinate during generation and are not designed to utilize external information sources. To enable requests to the external knowledge bases, also called knowledge grounding, retrieval-augmented LLMs were introduced. For now, their applications have largely involved Open Domain Question Answering, Abstractive Question Answering, and such. In this paper, we broaden the scope of retrieval-augmented LLMs by venturing into a new task — code generation using external entities. For this task, we collect and publish a new dataset for project-level code generation, where the model should reuse functions defined in the project during generation. As we show, existing retrieval-augmented LLMs fail to assign relevance scores between similar entity names, and to mitigate it, they expand entity names with description context and append it to the input. In practice, due to the limited context size they can not accommodate the indefinitely large context of the whole project. To solve this issue, we propose a novel end-to-end trainable architecture with an scalable entity retriever injected directly into the LLM decoder. We demonstrate that our model can outperform common baselines in several scenarios, including project-level code generation, as well as Bash and SQL scripting.


##
1 Introduction


In the area of natural language tasks and code generation, large-scale pretrained language models (LLMs) such as T5 (Raffel et al. 2020), GPT-3 (Brown et al. 2020), and LLaMA (Touvron et al. 2023) have made significant strides. However, these models fall short in one critical aspect — they are not inherently designed to leverage external entities from knowledge bases during the generation process. The standard practice for knowledge grounding in these models is to feed the model with pertinent information from the knowledge base along the input (Li et al. 2022). Usually, the document relevance is calculated via some similarity measure between the document and the input. Recent methods like REALM (Guu et al. 2020) directly incorporate retrievers into LLM architectures for end-to-end training. But this method faces substantial hurdles. First, while retriever training can be accomplished end-to-end, the performance of the model at inference heavily depends on the document the retriever selects. Second, treating relevant documents as nearest neighbors to the input in some embedding space should not work well for especially diverse samples, which simultaneously refer to documents on different topics. Finally, appending relevant documents to the model input makes both training and inference resource-intensive due to the sheer size of the documents.


*[Figure: Figure 1: We propose a novel task of code generation using external entities. In this example, the LLM generates code based on the function name and e]*


In this paper, we explore a new task of code generation using external entities. This task, as we show in Figure 1, deviates from traditional code generation, as it requires the model to utilize entities from an external knowledge base in the code it generates. In this task, the model is given a text input, a set of available entities, and a target code that it should generate. For example, the model can be trained to generate a function body, given a docstring and a list of project-level functions available for calling. The proposed view on the code generation likens it to such established tasks as Bash scripting, where the model should select appropriate flags for the generated commands from the man page. Even in SQL generation, which is commonly considered a semantic parsing task, research has shown that selecting the correct columns and tables is the most challenging aspect of the generation process (Lin, Socher, and Xiong 2020; Li et al. 2023a; Pourreza and Rafiei 2023; Zeng, Parthasarathi, and Hakkani-Tur 2022). For this task, we collect and publish a new dataset for project-level code generation, where the model should reuse functions defined in the project during generation.


Previous works observe that often the knowledge base contains entities with very similar names, like similar method names in a project or similar columns in a SQL database (Guo, Zhao, and Ma 2021). It causes errors during conventional token-by-token generation, as shown in Figure 2. On the one hand, it can happen when entity names have similar prefixes, and the generator fails to reproduce the entity name correctly, even if the retrieval part was good. On the other hand, similar entity names may make the retriever get the wrong entity, which subsequently fails the generator. When classical approaches add entity descriptions alongside entity names to the input trying to resolve the issue, it blows up the context size making the model drastically less scalable, even for a relatively small number of entities. When the entity description and the output lie in the same domain (e.g., code snippets) unintentional contamination can happen, and the output will reuse the code from the entity description.


To address these challenges, we propose a novel architecture for scalable retrieval-augmented language models that directly integrates the retriever into the LLM decoder instead of the LLM encoder. In our model, the decoder can select entities from a dynamic vocabulary as a whole, essentially by summarizing entity descriptions into single token embeddings. This architecture allows the generator to look at all entities at once, eliminating the dependence on the top-k approximation introduced by the earlier architectures. Injection into the decoder also means conditioning not only on the input but on the part of already generated output, which can help with the diverse samples. By design, our approach is also not exposed to the context contamination problem. Our experiments show that the retriever can be integrated well into modern LLM architectures like the aforementioned T5 and LLaMA.


Our work’s key contributions can be summarized as follows:


•


We introduce a novel architecture for entity-augmented decoding with scalable inference and plug-and-play design.


•


We rigorously study the proposed model performance.


•


We publish a new dataset for project-level code generation.


##
2 Related Work


*[Figure: Figure 2: Examples of project-level code generation.]*


In Natural Language Processing (NLP), retrieval-augmented generation has been applied to make knowledge grounding for Open Domain Question Answering, Dialog Response Generation problems, and others, as shown in  (Li et al. 2022). In the REALM model (Guu et al. 2020), the authors employ a sequence-to-sequence training paradigm. Here, the input text is combined with relevant documents, identified by maximizing the inner product between embeddings of the input text and documents from a large database. The RAG model (Lewis et al. 2020) takes a slightly different approach by treating documents as latent variables. The generated output is then marginalized over latent documents via top-k approximation. RetGen (Zhang et al. 2022) builds upon these concepts, utilizing a similar methodology during inference. The top-k retrieved documents are fed into k individual copies of the generator and then assembled using a Mixture-of-Experts approach to produce the final text. Lastly, the R2-D2 model (Fajcik et al. 2021) proposes a modular system encompassing retrieval, extraction, and generation capable of end-to-end training.


In semantic parsing and SQL generation in particular, similar techniques have been employed to retrieve and condition on relevant information from databases. As indicated in  (Li et al. 2023a), the most challenging aspect of generation is the selection of the correct column or table from a database. In the BRIDGE model (Lin, Socher, and Xiong 2020), the authors address this issue by selecting relevant column and table names based on n-gram overlap between them and the input string, subsequently appending them to the input text. The RAT-SQL model (Wang et al. 2020) introduces a cross-attention mechanism between the input text and the information drawn from the database to align elements between the question and the underlying data schema more effectively. Being not a retrieval model per se, the PICARD model (Scholak, Schucher, and Bahdanau 2021) takes an even more sophisticated approach by using constrained beam search for execution-guided decoding. This assures that every generated output adheres to the correct syntax and that every generated column and table exists in the database. The PICARD model was then successfully combined with retrieval models like GraphixT5  (Li et al. 2023b) to produce better results. In GraphixT5, the authors design a special graph-aware layer for T5 to encode semantic and structural information from the database.


While retrieval-augmented models designed for the natural language can be applied to code generation, the field has also seen many models specifically designed for code. The RECODE model (Hayati et al. 2018) represents one such approach. It functions by retrieving similar training examples and then, like PICARD, uses n-gram action subtrees (Yin and Neubig 2017) from these examples to guide constrained beam search decoding. REDCODER  (Parvez et al. 2021), on the other hand, adopts a different strategy. It concatenates the input with retrieved candidates, integrating relevant code fragments directly into the encoder. A more complex approach is seen in the Hybrid GNN model (Liu et al. 2020). This architecture constructs both static and dynamic graphs, representing the underlying code structure, and then augments the static graph with similar code snippets. Finally, the code completion ReACC model (Lu et al. 2022) reuses the code from similar code snippets that are retrieved and appended to the existing input.


We can see that despite the differences between described domains, the solutions between them look quite similar. A common approach involves appending the input with relevant context and feeding it into the model. It also can be augmented with constrained beam search or the usage of specific graph layers. In this paper, we present a different approach with a plug-and-play retriever that helps to perform direct entity lookup in the dynamic vocabulary of the decoder.


##
3 Dataset


###
3.1 Task Setting


In this paper, we explore the task of code generation that utilizes external entities. Formally, given an input string `x` , we want to generate code string `y` given a set of associated entities `\{(k_{j},z_{j})\}_{j=1}^{M}` . Each entity `(k_{j},z_{j})` consists of an entity name `k_{j}` and an entity description `z_{j}` . `M` is the number of entities in the sample. In general, associated entities and their number are different for each sample.


We assume that input sequence, output sequence, and entity descriptions consist of tokens from the same vocabulary `x,y,z_{j}\subseteq V` . Entity name `k_{j}` too has its token representation and can be generated autoregressively, which we explore as a baseline solution. However, in this paper, we propose a model where during generation, the entities are not generated token by token but are selected as a whole. Thus, formally, we assume that entity names are out-of-vocabulary tokens `k_{j}\not\subseteq V` .


However, only a few of these entities are relevant for `x_{i}` and are used in `y_{i}` . For example, in the project-level code generation, the entity set is the set of functions in the project. Here the entity name is the name of the function, and the entity description is the whole function with its body. In the task of Bash command generation, the entity set is the set of possible flags associated with the particular utility. The entity name is the utility flag like -v, and the entity description is the docstring for this flag from the man page. In SQL generation, the entity set is the set of columns and tables from the database, that the text query addresses, so entity names can coincide with entity descriptions.


###
3.2 Dataset Description


*[Figure: Figure 3: The proposed model architecture. The retriever produces embeddings of all the entities associated with the sample using cross-attention with]*


(Ding et al. 2023) stressed the importance of reusing the code inside the project in code generation and completion tasks. We collected the project-level code generation dataset of around 14,000 samples derived from around 1,100 GitHub repositories in Python, divided into train/dev/test sets in the ratio of 60/20/20 and stratified by projects. The dataset is different from other code generation datasets in a way that the target function has calls of other functions from inside the project. In this task, a model should generate a function body given the function signature, a docstring, and a set of functions implemented in the project (see an example in Figure 2). We considered the following criteria for data mining to make baseline evaluation feasible:


•


The repository should have at least 10 stars and 5 watchers to select good-quality code.


•


The target function with intra-project calls should contain from 50 to 300 tokens to reduce the hallucination effect during sequence generation.


•


The target function should also have a docstring.


•


To avoid data leakage, the target function from one sample can not be in the context entity set of another sample.


•


To avoid data leakage while using LLMs pretrained on code, the dataset was collected with repositories created after 01.01.2022.


Half of the downloaded repositories and functions were rejected due to inconsistent length, absence of docstrings, or independence from the project context. On average,


•


collected repositories have 3,880 lines of code,


•


target function has a length of 160 tokens (median 150),


•


there are 50 functions in the context (median 17),


•


there are 1.3 calls of project functions (median 2) per sample.


We publish the dataset alongside the paper.


###
3.3 Evaluation Metrics


We suggest an evaluation of code generation quality as well as entity retrieval quality, which shows how well the entity was retrieved and then utilized in the generation by the model. For code generation quality we suggest CodeBLEU (Ren et al. 2020) to be consistent with other code generation benchmarks  (Lu et al. 2021). For entity retrieval quality we suggest the accuracy of entity prediction by the generator without regard to entity position in the output:
[table]


where `y_{pred}` is the set of predicted entities for the sample and `y_{true}` is the set of actual entities used in the sample.


##
4 Model


We propose a new model architecture designed to solve code generation with external entities in a scalable and plug-and-play manner. As shown in Figure 3, the model consists of two parts, the entity retriever and the generator (LLM). The retriever ` takes in entity descriptions `z_{j}` and outputs entity embeddings (z_{j})` . It also uses cross-attention with the last input token representations from the generator. The generator is a general-purpose LLM `p(y|x)` for autoregressive decoding, augmented with the retriever `p(y|x,r(z))` . It takes the input string `x` and entity embeddings (z_{j})` and outputs a code string `y` . The resulting code string consists of regular tokens and out-of-vocabulary entity tokens. After simple additional post-processing, these entity tokens are converted back to regular tokens. A detailed description of the model parts is given below.


###
4.1 Retriever


The retriever has a conventional transformer encoder-decoder architecture with a maximum pooling layer on top. In particular, we selected the T5 architecture for its simplicity and good performance on the GLUE benchmark (Wang et al. 2018). According to the task formulation, for every sample `i` from the dataset, there is a set of possible entities `\{(k_{ij},z_{ij})\}_{j=1}^{M}` that can be used in the generation:
[table]


Therefore, the retriever makes embeddings for each possible entity for each sample in the batch and sends them to the generator.


To improve the summarization of entity descriptions and to make it dependent on the input, the retriever uses cross-attention with the last input token representations from the generator:
[table]


where `Q_{g}` is the query matrix from the last layer of the generator `g` , `K_{r}` , and `V_{r}` are key and value matrices of the retriever ` , and `d` is the hidden size.


###
4.2 Generator


The generator `p(y|x)` can have a transformer encoder-decoder or a decoder-only architecture to implement autoregressive decoding. In the experiments, we use T5, CodeT5  (Wang et al. 2021), and LLaMA models for this purpose.


The generator `p(y|x)` takes the text input `x` and outputs code sequence `y` . In the case where the generator has an encoder-decoder architecture, the last input token representations of the encoder are used for cross-attention with respect to the input `x` . However, if the generator is a decoder, the last input token representations of the prompt ( `x` ) are used.


The retriever is injected into the decoder part of the generator `p(y|x,r(z))` to provide direct entity lookup. This is done by dynamically extending the generator’s vocabulary with entity tokens provided by the retriever on the current sample.


The token embedding matrix `E^{orig}` in the generator extends to `E^{(i)}` for each sample `i` in the following way:
[table]


where (z_{ij})` is the retriever’s embedding of entity description `z_{ij}` for sample `i` . The output linear layer `W^{out}` in the generator is extended similarly:
[table]


This way, the prediction of the next token `y_{t}` for sample `i` becomes:
[table]


where `g_{it}=g(x,y_{<t},E^{(i)})` is generator logits before the output linear layer.


###
4.3 Training and Decoding


The retriever and the generator are trained jointly in an autoregressive fashion:
[table]


They are trained to optimize the negative log-likelihood of the generated sequence:
[table]


If the next token is the entity token `z_{ij}` , then the loss on the i-th sample is


[table]


We see that injection of the retriever into the decoder leads to direct entity lookup. Effectively, at every step, the generator decides to continue with a regular token from the vocabulary or select an entity token.


During the decoding of the sample output, all possible entities are embedded by the retriever and sent to the generator. If the generator selects the entity token `y_{t}=k_{j}` at step ` , then all following tokens `y_{>t}` will be conditioned on the entity embedding (z_{j})` instead of the tokenized representation of `k_{j}` . Only after the decoding is completed the entity token is substituted with its tokenized representation.


###
4.4 Scalability


Injection of the retriever into the decoder makes the whole model more scalable. Let `T` be the input length, `N` — the length of the output string, `L` — the average entity description length, and ` — the number of entities. Here we compare time complexity on inference for the generation of output string of length `N` . We also assume that we have the autoregressive mask in the decoder, and so we do efficient cashing during inference. Our model applies the retriever ` times to produce the entity embeddings with cross-attention to the input embeddings from the last hidden layer of the generator. So time complexity of the entity retriever is `O(nTL)` .


For decoder-only transformer architecture where the input is concatenated with entity descriptions the time complexity is `O((N+T+nL)^{2})` . Using this generator architecture, our model has time complexity `O((N+T)^{2}+nTL)` .


For encoder-decoder transformer architecture where the input is concatenated with entity descriptions the time complexity is `O((T+nL)^{2}+(T+nL)N)` , where `O((T+nL)^{2})` is the time complexity of the encoder part, and `(T+nL)N` is the cross-attention between encoder and decoder. Using this generator architecture our model has time complexity `O(T^{2}+TN+nTL)`


##
5 Experiments


*[Figure: Table 1: Model evaluation using CodeT5-base for project-level code generation, Llama-3B for Nl2bash and T5-base for Spider dataset. For LLM(input + to]*


*[Figure: Table 2: Ablation Study for the retriever (z)` without cross-attention (c/a), the retriver (x+z)` with prepended input `x` , and separate tra]*


We evaluate our model across three datasets, where the code needs to be generated using entities from the corresponding knowledge base. The novel dataset for project-level code generation, and also the NL2Bash dataset, and the Spider SQL dataset. For each dataset, we report task-specific metrics along with the accuracy of entity prediction by the generator cc` from Section 3.3.


###
5.1 Datasets


####


The project-level code generation dataset consists of around 14,000 samples derived from around 1,100 GitHub repositories in Python, divided into train/dev/test sets in the ratio of 60/20/20. In this task, a model should generate a function body given the function signature and the docstring, using a set of functions implemented in the project. Here we look at functions in the context as a set of entities. We take function names as entity names and the whole function as the entity description. CodeBLEU (Ren et al. 2020) and ChrF (Popović 2015) metrics are used to assess the quality of the generated code.


####


The NL2Bash dataset  (Lin et al. 2018) consists of around 8,000 training samples and 600 samples for validation and testing. In this task, a model should generate Bash commands based on a natural language description, given the man page documentation. The Exact Match metric is used to evaluate the model performance. File names and the order of flags are not taken into account during evaluation.


Bash commands can form a chain or have nested commands. The distribution of utility usage across samples is far from uniform, with just several utilities adding up to 60% of samples. For this reason, the main challenge is to correctly predict utility flags. In this dataset, we use flag names as entity names and utility flag documentation as entity descriptions.


####


The Spider SQL dataset (Yu et al. 2018) consists of around 7,000 samples in the train set and 3,000 samples in the dev set. In this task, a model should generate an SQL query from a natural language input, given the database schema. Each sample from the dataset refers to its own database. There are samples of different difficulties, ranging from easy to extra hard. It was shown  (Pourreza and Rafiei 2023; Zeng, Parthasarathi, and Hakkani-Tur 2022) that the most challenging issue in this task is selecting the proper column and table. Exact Match (EM) and Execution Accuracy (EX) are the two metrics used in the dataset to measure model performance. EM evaluates how much the generated SQL is comparable to the ground truth, while EX measures how well it matches the output of the execution of the generated SQL.


We use popular data preprocessing from the Spider leaderboard, simplifying SQL queries using NatSQL (Gan et al. 2021). NatSQL simplification essentially makes outer join on the tables in the database, providing table aliases to the columns in the table.column form. We concatenate the column name with corresponding values from the database records to generate entity descriptions. The model trains to generate NatSQL queries, which are subsequently converted to the full SQL form. The dataset metrics are evaluated on the full SQL form.


###
5.2 Implementation Details


We implement our code in Pytorch and use Transformer implementations from the HuggingFace library. We also take pre-trained model weights from the HuggingFace hub. We conduct all experiments on eight NVIDIA A10 and one A100 GPUs using Ubuntu 22.04 LTS with 256 GB RAM. In all experiments, we optimize model weights with the Adam optimizer  (Kingma and Ba 2014) with 1e-4 learning rate and cosine learning rate schedule  (Loshchilov and Hutter 2016). The generation is performed with beam search decoding with a beam size 5.


###
5.3 Baselines


In Table 1, we evaluate our model on three code generation datasets against three kinds of baselines.


The first baseline LLM (input) is a model without any entity information `p(y|x)` , which takes text input `x` and produces code output `y` . The baseline serves as a reference to how much performance we gain by knowledge grounding on the dataset.


The second baseline LLM (input + top-k NN entities) is a model `p(y|x,z)` with entity information `z` appended to the text input `x` . The relevant entities `(k_{j},z_{j})` are retrieved by maximizing the inner product between sentence embeddings of entity description `z_{j}` and text input `x` . Sentence embeddings are produced via maximum pooling on BERT embeddings. As was mentioned in Section 2, many retrieval-augmented models follow this approach.


For the third baseline LLM (input + our retrieval), we take the entities selected by our model using our entity retrieval and feed them into `p(y|x,z)` generator from the second baseline. This way, we can use the same entity retriever ` as in our model and explore the effect of the architecture with the retrieval on the decoding stage as opposed to common retrieving before the decoding.


The fourth baseline is LLM (input + oracle entities), where the relevant entities `(k_{j},z_{j})` are provided by the oracle. This means only entities used in the target sequence `y` are appended to the input `x` . This baseline serves as a reference for the upper bound on the model performance.


For each dataset, a different generator model was selected because it is beneficial if generator `p(y|x)` already has good performance on the task domain. Thus, for the experiments on the Spider dataset, we use the T5-base model for the generator and the T5-small model for the retriever since T5 is extensively used in the Spider Leaderboard. For the NL2Bash dataset, we use the LLaMA-3B model for the generator and the T5-small model for the retriever. For the experiments on the project-level code completion, we use the generator part of CodeT5-2B for the generator and CodeT5-small for the retriever.


###
5.4 Results


*[Figure: Figure 4: Average retrieval accuracy vs number of entities in the sample for project-level code generation for baselines and ours approach. For each m]*


*[Figure: Figure 5: Average retrieval accuracy vs number of entities in the sample for SQL generation for baselines and our approach. For each method, it shows ]*


On the project-level code generation, our model consistently outperforms all baselines, including the oracle baseline, by both CodeBLEU and ChrF metrics but loses to the oracle baseline by the retrieval accuracy metric. So, essentially the oracle model managed to insert the right entities in the wrong code. Here entity description and target sequence lie in the same domain of Python code, which can influence the generation quality.


On the Nl2bash dataset, our model outperforms the first and the second baseline but not the third baseline.
In the target bash commands, the utilities are used with a lot of flags (entities) that go one after another and their order doesn’t matter. The bash commands were manually designed in such a way that there are no misleading flag names. And also, command flags typically aren’t position sensitive, which was also highlighted by the metrics selected in the original work. The results suggest that the injection of entity retriever into the decoder is not beneficial in such cases.


On the Spider dataset, our model outperforms the first three baselines losing only to the oracle baseline. The margin in the EX metric, by which the oracle baseline outperforms other methods, stresses how important it is to select the right entities in this task. Here, like in the code generation task, the proposed method outperforms the baseline combining the proposed retriever with the classical generator.


In Figure 4 and Figure 5, we combined dataset samples into different buckets by the number of entities they use in the target. For each bucket, we computed average retrieval accuracy for different baselines and our model. From Figure 4 and Figure 5, we see that the LLM (input) baseline retrieval accuracy drops already at two entities per sample. The LLM (input + top-k NN entities) retrieval quality declines as the number of entities per sample grows. Finally, the oracle baseline and our model have near-constant retrieval accuracy for all buckets.


Overall from Table 1, we see that our model outperforms the first and second baselines on all three datasets. Furthermore, it outperforms LLM (input + our retrieval) baseline on the Spider and project-level code generation datasets, despite having the same set of entities retrieved. This shows the benefits of injecting the entity retriever into the decoder and also favors the validity of the hypothesis about misleading entity names. With the exception of the oracle baseline on the project-level code generation, the retrieval accuracy is well correlated with task-specific metrics. As we see, the injection of the retriever into the generator does not disrupt the metrics on the generation.


###
5.5 Ablation Study


Ablation study is performed on the Spider dataset and shown in Table 2 with a T5-base generator and a T5-small retriever. The Spider dataset has the output vocabulary limited to SQL keywords, so EX@1 and EM@1 will strongly correlate with retrieval accuracy metrics.


We examined the importance of cross-attention between the retriever and the generator. To explore the other possible way to interconnect the input `x` and entity descriptions `z` , we trained a model, where the entity descriptions are prepended with the text input `x` (#1). We also trained our model without cross-attention (#2). From Table 2, we see that the cross-attention model outperforms these two options.


We also explore the setting where training is done separately (#3). First, the generator `p(y|x)` is fine-tuned on the dataset, and then the retriever (z)` is injected and fine-tuned. From Table 2, we can see that it performs worse than joint training.


##
6 Conclusion


In this paper, we explored a new task of code generation that utilizes external entities. We collected and published a new dataset on project-level code completion for this task. We demonstrated through several experiments the ineffectiveness of common approaches where relevant documents are appended to the input. We empirically found that our hypothesis on misleading entity names disrupting generation quality is plausible and that the proposed model can mitigate this through generation-aware retrieval. We propose a novel architecture with entity retrieval injected into the decoder and evaluate it on three datasets: SQL and Bash generation datasets, as well as the newly collected project-level code generation dataset. The proposed model outperforms common baselines, has scalable inference, and can be used in plug-in-play mode with any pretrained LLMs. At the same time, the experiments on Nl2Bash show that retrieval in the decoder does not perform the best in certain settings. The presented research paves the road to solving practical tasks in code generation using external entities.


## Acknowledgements


We thank Yaroslav Zharov for productive discussions and advice. We thank Yaroslav Golubev and Egor Bogomolov for their thoughtful and constructive feedback.


## References


Brown et al. (2020)

Brown, T.; Mann, B.; Ryder, N.; Subbiah, M.; Kaplan, J. D.; Dhariwal, P.;
Neelakantan, A.; Shyam, P.; Sastry, G.; Askell, A.; Agarwal, S.;
Herbert-Voss, A.; Krueger, G.; Henighan, T.; Child, R.; Ramesh, A.; Ziegler,
D.; Wu, J.; Winter, C.; Hesse, C.; Chen, M.; Sigler, E.; Litwin, M.; Gray,
S.; Chess, B.; Clark, J.; Berner, C.; McCandlish, S.; Radford, A.; Sutskever,
I.; and Amodei, D. 2020.


Language Models are Few-Shot Learners.


In Larochelle, H.; Ranzato, M.; Hadsell, R.; Balcan, M.; and Lin, H.,
eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33,
1877–1901. Curran Associates, Inc.


Ding et al. (2023)

Ding, Y.; Wang, Z.; Ahmad, W. U.; Ramanathan, M. K.; Nallapati, R.; Bhatia, P.;
Roth, D.; and Xiang, B. 2023.


CoCoMIC: Code Completion By Jointly Modeling In-file and Cross-file
Context.


arXiv:2212.10007.


Fajcik et al. (2021)

Fajcik, M.; Docekal, M.; Ondrej, K.; and Smrz, P. 2021.


R2-D2: A Modular Baseline for Open-Domain Question Answering.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2021, 854–870. Punta Cana, Dominican Republic: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Gan et al. (2021)

Gan, Y.; Chen, X.; Xie, J.; Purver, M.; Woodward, J. R.; Drake, J.; and Zhang,
Q. 2021.


Natural SQL: Making SQL Easier to Infer from Natural Language
Specifications.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2021, 2030–2042. Punta Cana, Dominican Republic: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Guo, Zhao, and Ma (2021)

Guo, A.; Zhao, X.; and Ma, W. 2021.


ER-SQL: Learning enhanced representation for Text-to-SQL using table
contents.


Neurocomputing, 465: 359–370.


Guu et al. (2020)

Guu, K.; Lee, K.; Tung, Z.; Pasupat, P.; and Chang, M. 2020.


Retrieval augmented language model pre-training.


In International conference on machine learning, 3929–3938.
PMLR.


Hayati et al. (2018)

Hayati, S. A.; Olivier, R.; Avvaru, P.; Yin, P.; Tomasic, A.; and Neubig, G.
2018.


Retrieval-Based Neural Code Generation.


In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 925–930. Brussels, Belgium: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Kingma and Ba (2014)

Kingma, D.; and Ba, J. 2014.


Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization.


International Conference on Learning Representations.


Lewis et al. (2020)

Lewis, P.; Perez, E.; Piktus, A.; Petroni, F.; Karpukhin, V.; Goyal, N.;
Küttler, H.; Lewis, M.; Yih, W.-t.; Rocktäschel, T.; Riedel, S.; and
Kiela, D. 2020.


Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks.


In Larochelle, H.; Ranzato, M.; Hadsell, R.; Balcan, M.; and Lin, H.,
eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33,
9459–9474. Curran Associates, Inc.


Li et al. (2022)

Li, H.; Su, Y.; Cai, D.; Wang, Y.; and Liu, L. 2022.


A Survey on Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation.


CoRR, abs/2202.01110.


Li et al. (2023a)

Li, H.; Zhang, J.; Li, C.; and Chen, H. 2023a.


RESDSQL: Decoupling Schema Linking and Skeleton Parsing for
Text-to-SQL.


In AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence.


Li et al. (2023b)

Li, J.; Hui, B.; Cheng, R.; Qin, B.; Ma, C.; Huo, N.; Huang, F.; Du, W.; Si,
L.; and Li, Y. 2023b.


Graphix-T5: Mixing Pre-trained Transformers with Graph-Aware Layers
for Text-to-SQL Parsing.


Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
37(11): 13076–13084.


Lin, Socher, and Xiong (2020)

Lin, X. V.; Socher, R.; and Xiong, C. 2020.


Bridging Textual and Tabular Data for Cross-Domain Text-to-SQL
Semantic Parsing.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2020, 4870–4888. Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.


Lin et al. (2018)

Lin, X. V.; Wang, C.; Zettlemoyer, L.; and Ernst, M. D. 2018.


NL2Bash: A Corpus and Semantic Parser for Natural Language
Interface to the Linux Operating System.


In Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on
Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018). Miyazaki, Japan: European
Language Resources Association (ELRA).


Liu et al. (2020)

Liu, S.; Chen, Y.; Xie, X.; Siow, J. K.; and Liu, Y. 2020.


Automatic Code Summarization via Multi-dimensional Semantic Fusing in
GNN.


CoRR, abs/2006.05405.


Loshchilov and Hutter (2016)

Loshchilov, I.; and Hutter, F. 2016.


SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Restarts.


CoRR, abs/1608.03983.


Lu et al. (2022)

Lu, S.; Duan, N.; Han, H.; Guo, D.; Hwang, S.-w.; and Svyatkovskiy, A. 2022.


ReACC: A Retrieval-Augmented Code Completion Framework.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.07722.


Lu et al. (2021)

Lu, S.; Guo, D.; Ren, S.; Huang, J.; Svyatkovskiy, A.; Blanco, A.; Clement,
C. B.; Drain, D.; Jiang, D.; Tang, D.; Li, G.; Zhou, L.; Shou, L.; Zhou, L.;
Tufano, M.; Gong, M.; Zhou, M.; Duan, N.; Sundaresan, N.; Deng, S. K.; Fu,
S.; and Liu, S. 2021.


CodeXGLUE: A Machine Learning Benchmark Dataset for Code
Understanding and Generation.


CoRR, abs/2102.04664.


Parvez et al. (2021)

Parvez, M. R.; Ahmad, W.; Chakraborty, S.; Ray, B.; and Chang, K.-W. 2021.


Retrieval Augmented Code Generation and Summarization.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2021, 2719–2734. Punta Cana, Dominican Republic: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Popović (2015)

Popović, M. 2015.


chrF: character n-gram F-score for automatic MT evaluation.


In Proceedings of the Tenth Workshop on Statistical Machine
Translation, 392–395. Lisbon, Portugal: Association for Computational
Linguistics.


Pourreza and Rafiei (2023)

Pourreza, M.; and Rafiei, D. 2023.


DIN-SQL: Decomposed In-Context Learning of Text-to-SQL with
Self-Correction.


arXiv:2304.11015.


Raffel et al. (2020)

Raffel, C.; Shazeer, N.; Roberts, A.; Lee, K.; Narang, S.; Matena, M.; Zhou,
Y.; Li, W.; and Liu, P. J. 2020.


Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer.


The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 21(1): 5485–5551.


Ren et al. (2020)

Ren, S.; Guo, D.; Lu, S.; Zhou, L.; Liu, S.; Tang, D.; Sundaresan, N.; Zhou,
M.; Blanco, A.; and Ma, S. 2020.


CodeBLEU: a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Code Synthesis.


CoRR, abs/2009.10297.


Scholak, Schucher, and Bahdanau (2021)

Scholak, T.; Schucher, N.; and Bahdanau, D. 2021.


PICARD: Parsing Incrementally for Constrained Auto-Regressive
Decoding from Language Models.


In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 9895–9901. Online and Punta Cana, Dominican
Republic: Association for Computational Linguistics.


Touvron et al. (2023)

Touvron, H.; Lavril, T.; Izacard, G.; Martinet, X.; Lachaux, M.-A.; Lacroix,
T.; Rozière, B.; Goyal, N.; Hambro, E.; Azhar, F.; Rodriguez, A.; Joulin,
A.; Grave, E.; and Lample, G. 2023.


LLaMA: Open and Efficient Foundation Language Models.


arXiv:2302.13971.


Wang et al. (2018)

Wang, A.; Singh, A.; Michael, J.; Hill, F.; Levy, O.; and Bowman, S. 2018.


GLUE: A Multi-Task Benchmark and Analysis Platform for Natural
Language Understanding.


In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP:
Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP, 353–355. Brussels,
Belgium: Association for Computational Linguistics.


Wang et al. (2020)

Wang, B.; Shin, R.; Liu, X.; Polozov, O.; and Richardson, M. 2020.


RAT-SQL: Relation-Aware Schema Encoding and Linking for
Text-to-SQL Parsers.


In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 7567–7578. Online: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Wang et al. (2021)

Wang, Y.; Wang, W.; Joty, S.; and Hoi, S. C. 2021.


CodeT5: Identifier-aware Unified Pre-trained Encoder-Decoder
Models for Code Understanding and Generation.


In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 8696–8708. Online and Punta Cana, Dominican
Republic: Association for Computational Linguistics.


Yin and Neubig (2017)

Yin, P.; and Neubig, G. 2017.


A Syntactic Neural Model for General-Purpose Code Generation.


In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 440–450. Vancouver,
Canada: Association for Computational Linguistics.


Yu et al. (2018)

Yu, T.; Zhang, R.; Yang, K.; Yasunaga, M.; Wang, D.; Li, Z.; Ma, J.; Li, I.;
Yao, Q.; Roman, S.; Zhang, Z.; and Radev, D. 2018.


Spider: A Large-Scale Human-Labeled Dataset for Complex and
Cross-Domain Semantic Parsing and Text-to-SQL Task.


In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 3911–3921. Brussels, Belgium: Association for
Computational Linguistics.


Zeng, Parthasarathi, and Hakkani-Tur (2022)

Zeng, L.; Parthasarathi, S. H. K.; and Hakkani-Tur, D. 2022.


N-Best Hypotheses Reranking for Text-To-SQL Systems.


arXiv:2210.10668.


Zhang et al. (2022)

Zhang, Y.; Sun, S.; Gao, X.; Fang, Y.; Brockett, C.; Galley, M.; Gao, J.; and
Dolan, B. 2022.


RetGen: A joint framework for retrieval and grounded text generation
modeling.


In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 36, 11739–11747.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►