# Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation

**arXiv ID**: 2401.15884v3
**Authors**: Shi-Qi Yan, Jia-Chen Gu, Yun Zhu, Zhen-Hua Ling
**Published**: 2024-01-29
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15884v3
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2401.15884] Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation


# Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation


Shi-Qi Yan1, Jia-Chen Gu211footnotemark: 1, Yun Zhu3, Zhen-Hua Ling1
1National Engineering Research Center of Speech and Language Information Processing,
University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China
2Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles
3Google Research
yansiki@mail.ustc.edu.cn, gujc@ucla.edu, yunzhu@google.com, zhling@ustc.edu.cn
 Equal contribution.


###### Abstract


Large language models (LLMs) inevitably exhibit hallucinations since the accuracy of generated texts cannot be secured solely by the parametric knowledge they encapsulate.
Although retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a practicable complement to LLMs, it relies heavily on the relevance of retrieved documents, raising concerns about how the model behaves if retrieval goes wrong.
To this end, we propose the Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation (CRAG) to improve the robustness of generation.
Specifically, a lightweight retrieval evaluator is designed to assess the overall quality of retrieved documents for a query, returning a confidence degree based on which different knowledge retrieval actions can be triggered.
Since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documents, large-scale web searches are utilized as an extension for augmenting the retrieval results.
Besides, a decompose-then-recompose algorithm is designed for retrieved documents to selectively focus on key information and filter out irrelevant information in them.
CRAG is plug-and-play and can be seamlessly coupled with various RAG-based approaches.
Experiments on four datasets covering short- and long-form generation tasks show that CRAG can significantly improve the performance of RAG-based approaches.111The code is available at github.com/HuskyInSalt/CRAG


Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation


Shi-Qi Yan1††thanks:  Equal contribution., Jia-Chen Gu211footnotemark: 1, Yun Zhu3, Zhen-Hua Ling1

1National Engineering Research Center of Speech and Language Information Processing,

University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China

2Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles

3Google Research

yansiki@mail.ustc.edu.cn, gujc@ucla.edu, yunzhu@google.com, zhling@ustc.edu.cn


##
1 Introduction


Large language models (LLMs) have attracted increasing attention and exhibited impressive abilities to understand instructions and generate fluent language texts Brown et al. (2020); Ouyang et al. (2022); OpenAI (2023); Touvron et al. (2023a).
Nevertheless, LLMs inevitably manifest hallucinations Ji et al. (2023) due to their struggle with factual errors Mallen et al. (2023); Min et al. (2023) and inability to secure the accuracy of generated texts solely by the parametric knowledge they encapsulate Zhang et al. (2023b); Muhlgay et al. (2023).


*[Figure: Figure 1: The examples show that a low-quality retriever is prone to introducing a substantial amount of irrelevant information, impeding the generato]*


Prior research has introduced retrieval techniques to incorporate relevant knowledge and augment generation, as exemplified by retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) Lewis et al. (2020).
In this framework, the input to models is augmented by prepending relevant documents that are retrieved from an external knowledge corpus Guu et al. (2020).
While RAG serves as a practicable complement to LLMs, its effectiveness is contingent upon the relevance and accuracy of the retrieved documents Li et al. (2022); Tan et al. (2022).
The heavy reliance of generation on the retrieved knowledge raises significant concerns about the model’s behavior and performance in scenarios where retrieval may fail or return inaccurate results Shi et al. (2023).
As Figure 1 shows that a low-quality retriever is prone to introducing a substantial amount of irrelevant information, impeding the models from acquiring accurate knowledge and potentially misleading them, resulting in issues such as hallucinations Zhang et al. (2023b).
However, most conventional RAG approaches indiscriminately incorporate the retrieved documents, regardless of whether these documents are relevant or not Rony et al. (2022).
Furthermore, current methods mostly treat complete documents as reference knowledge both during retrieval and utilization.
But a considerable portion of the text within these retrieved documents is often non-essential for generation, which should not have been equally referred to and involved in RAG.


On account of the above issues, this paper particularly studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results.
A method named Corrective Retrieval-Augmented Generation (CRAG) is proposed to self-correct the results of retriever and improve the utilization of documents for augmenting generation.
A lightweight retrieval evaluator is designed to assess the overall quality of retrieved documents for a query.
This serves as a crucial component in RAG, contributing to informative generation by reviewing and evaluating the relevance and reliability of the retrieved documents.
A confidence degree is quantified based on which different knowledge retrieval actions of {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} can be triggered.
For the latter two actions, large-scale web searches Piktus et al. (2021); Komeili et al. (2022) are integrated as a strategic extension, since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documents in terms of scope and diversity.
This augmentation is implemented to broaden the spectrum of retrieved information, harnessing the expansive and dynamic nature of the web to complement and enrich the initially obtained documents.
Furthermore, to eliminate redundant contexts contained in retrieved documents that are unhelpful for RAG, a decompose-then-recompose algorithm is meticulously crafted throughout the retrieval and utilization process.
This algorithm ensures the refinement of retrieved information, optimizing the extraction of key insights and minimizing the inclusion of non-essential elements, thereby enhancing the utilization of retrieved data.


CRAG is plug-and-play and experimentally implemented into RAG Lewis et al. (2020) and Self-RAG Asai et al. (2023) for demonstrating its adaptability to RAG-based approaches.
Results on four datasets of PopQA Mallen et al. (2023), Biography Min et al. (2023), Pub Health Zhang et al. (2023a), and Arc-Challenge Bhakthavatsalam et al. (2021) show that CRAG can significantly improve the performance of standard RAG and Self-RAG, demonstrating its generalizability across short- and long-form generation tasks.


In summary, our contributions in this paper are three-fold:
1) This paper studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results and, to the best of our knowledge, makes the first attempt to design corrective strategies for RAG to improve its robustness.
2) A plug-and-play method named CRAG is proposed to improve the ability of automatic self-correction and efficient utilization of retrieved documents.
3) Experimental results extensively demonstrate CRAG’s adaptability to RAG-based approaches and its generalizability across short- and long-form generation tasks.


##
2 Related Work


#### Hallucinations of LLMs


Although LLMs have exhibited impressive abilities to understand instructions and generate fluent language texts Bang et al. (2023); Qin et al. (2023); Zhong et al. (2023), one of the most severe issues that LLMs have still been struggling with is hallucinations.
As many studies found Zhang et al. (2023b); Shuster et al. (2021), either outdated information or incorrect knowledge that is activated would seriously result in hallucinations.
Large-scale unregulated training data collection, low proportion of high-quality sampling data, imperfection of data allocation in the input space, and many other realistic factors could impact the LLMs and exacerbate the problems.
Thus, it is obvious that the lack of accurate and specific knowledge can lead to misleading or even inaccurate generation, which will severely hurt the experience of users in most practical applications.


#### Retrieval-Augmented Generation


RAG Lewis et al. (2020); Guu et al. (2020) is regarded as a useful method to address the issues above, which enhances the input questions of generative LMs with retrieved documents.
It usually provides an extra knowledge source from a specific corpus, i.e., Wikipedia, which greatly improves the performance of LMs in a variety of tasks, especially in the knowledge-intensive ones.
The proposed methods generally leverage information retrieval to supply documents containing relevant knowledge for generative LLMs.
Earlier studies adopt either sparse or dense retrievers at the front end of a pre-trained language model that specializes in response generation.
Despite this, the methods above usually ignore a question, what if the retrieval goes wrong?
Since the purpose of introducing a retrieval is to secure that generative LMs can obtain relevant and accurate knowledge.
If retrieved documents are irrelevant, the retrieval system can even exacerbate the factual error that LMs make.


#### Advanced RAG


Many advanced approaches have been developed from the original RAG in recent years.
Considering that retrieval is sometimes unnecessary for some queries, conversely, responses without retrieval are even more accurate in many situations.
Asai et al. (2023) was proposed to selectively retrieve knowledge and introduce a critic model to decide whether to retrieve.
Yoran et al. (2023) designed a NLI model to identify the irrelevant context and improve robustness.
Luo et al. (2023) is tuned on instructions to insert retrieved documents before instructions.
While Schick et al. (2023) pre-train a model for calling APIs such as Wikipedia.
In addition, in some long-text generation tasks, external knowledge is needed more than once, and when to retrieve should be concerned.
Jiang et al. (2023) actively decide when and what to retrieve in long-form generation.


Compared with recent studies Schick et al. (2023); Luo et al. (2023); Asai et al. (2023) that are the most relevant to our work, a main difference should be highlighted.
These approaches target on exploiting retrieval as a useful tool to augment generation or whether retrieval is necessary, while this study particularly studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results.
To the best of our knowledge, this paper makes the first attempt to explore and design corrective strategies for RAG to improve its robustness of generation.


##
3 Task Formulation


Following previous work Lewis et al. (2020); Asai et al. (2023), given input `\mathcal{X}` and an accessible corpus containing a large amount of knowledge documents `\mathcal{C}=\{d_{1},...,d_{N}\}` , the system is expected to generate the outputs `\mathcal{Y}` .
To retrieve the relevant documents and answer the input text, the entire framework is usually divided into two modules of a retriever `\mathcal{R}` and a generator `\mathcal{G}` .
The retriever `\mathcal{R}` aims to retrieve the top- `\mathcal{K}` documents `\mathcal{D}=\{d_{r_{1}},...,d_{r_{k}}\}` that are relevant to the input text `\mathcal{X}` from the corpus `\mathcal{C}` .
Based on the input text `\mathcal{X}` and the retrieved results `\mathcal{D}` , the generator `\mathcal{G}` is responsible for generating the output text `\mathcal{Y}` .
This framework can be formulated as:
[table]


It can be seen from Equ. (1) that the retriever and the generator are seamlessly coupled.
This system exhibits a low tolerance for risk, as any unsuccessful retrieval can result in an unsatisfactory response, regardless of the impressive abilities of the generator.
This is exactly the focus of this paper to improve the robustness of the generator.


##
4 CRAG


*[Figure: Figure 2:
An overview of CRAG at inference. A retrieval evaluator is constructed to evaluate the relevance of the retrieved documents to the input, a]*


*[Figure: Algorithm 1 CRAG Inference]*


###
4.1 Overview of Model Inference


Figure 2 and Algorithm 1 present an overview of CRAG at inference, which designs corrective strategies to improve the robustness of the generator.
Given an input query and the retrieved documents from any retriever, a lightweight retrieval evaluator is constructed to estimate the relevance score of retrieved documents to the input query (Section 4.2).
The calculated relevance score is quantified into a total of three confidence degrees and then triggered the corresponding actions: {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} (Section 4.3).
If the action Correct is triggered, the retrieved documents will be refined into more precise knowledge strips. This refinement operation involves knowledge decomposition, filter, and recomposition (Section 4.4).
If the action Incorrect is triggered, the retrieved documents will be discarded. Instead, web searches are resorted to and regarded as complementary knowledge sources for corrections (Section 4.5).
Eventually, when the system cannot confidently make a correct or incorrect judgment, a soft action Ambiguous which combines both of them is triggered.
After optimizing the retrieval results, an arbitrary generative model can be adopted subsequently to generate the final result.


###
4.2 Retrieval Evaluator


Before utilizing the retrieved documents, it is natural to identify whether the retrieved documents are accurate or not.
It is essential since irrelevant or misleading messages can be removed in this way.
The accuracy of the retrieval evaluator undeniably plays a pivotal role in shaping the overall system performance, as it influences the outcomes of subsequent processes.
Our objective is to correct retrieved documents if they are not relevant.
Specifically, T5-large Raffel et al. (2020) is adopted and fine-tuned.
For every question, there are generally 10 documents retrieved.
The question is concatenated with each single document as the input, and the evaluator predicts the relevance score for each question-document pair individually.
During fine-tuning, the label of positive samples is 1, while that of negative ones is -1.
At inference, the evaluator scores the relevance from -1 to 1 for each document.
We also tried to prompt ChatGPT to identify the retrieval relevance for comparison, but it underperforms as elaborated in Section 5.5.
Compared with the critic model of Self-RAG Asai et al. (2023), the evaluator designed in CRAG shows two great advantages.
First, the evaluator is T5-large-based (0.77B), which is quite lightweight compared with the critic model that instruction tuned LLaMA-2 (7B).
Second, the evaluator is free from any extra human or LLM annotation, while the critic model requires GPT-4 annotated data for instruction tuning.


###
4.3 Action Trigger


To correct the irrelevant document and refine the target document as needed, actions should be executed discriminately.
Based on the aforementioned confidence score for each retrieved document, three types of actions are designed and triggered accordingly where the upper and lower thresholds are set.
If the confidence score is higher than the upper threshold, the retrieved document is identified as Correct, while identified as Incorrect if it is below the lower threshold. Otherwise, Ambiguous is executed.
This process is conducted for each retrieved document individually.


#### Correct


Here, a retrieval is assumed Correct when the confidence score of at least one retrieved document is higher than the upper threshold.
If so, it means there are relevant documents in the retrieved results.
Even if a relevant document can be found, there is inevitably some noisy knowledge strips in this document.
To extract the most critical knowledge strips within this document, a knowledge refinement method is further designed which will be elaborated in Section 4.4.


#### Incorrect


Besides, a retrieval is assumed Incorrect when the confidence scores of all retrieved documents are below the lower threshold.
This indicates that all retrieved documents are considered irrelevant, which are unhelpful for generation.
Therefore, we need to seek new sources of knowledge for correction.
Here, web search is introduced to search from the Internet as elaborated in Section 4.5.
This corrective action helps overcome the embarrassing challenge where no reliable knowledge can be referred to.


#### Ambiguous


Except for the above two situations, the remaining will be assigned to an intermediate action of Ambiguous.
Since the retrieval evaluator is not confident in its judgment, both types of processed knowledge in Correct and Incorrect are combined to complement each other.
Implementing such a moderating and soft strategy can significantly contribute to strengthening the robustness and resilience of the system, fostering a more adaptable framework for optimal performance.


###
4.4 Knowledge Refinement


Given a retrieved relevant document, a decompose-then-recompose knowledge refinement method is designed to further extract the most critical knowledge strips in it.
First, each retrieved document is segmented into fine-grained knowledge strips through heuristic rules, more details are available in Appendix B.
Then, the retrieval evaluator fine-tuned in Section 4.2 is employed to calculate the relevance score of each knowledge strip.
Based on these scores, irrelevant knowledge strips are filtered out, while relevant ones are recomposed via concatenation in order, namely internal knowledge.


###
4.5 Web Search


It is extremely important to seek complementary external knowledge if the retrieved results are all assumed irrelevant.
Since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documents in terms of scope and diversity, large-scale web searches Piktus et al. (2021); Komeili et al. (2022) are integrated as a strategic extension of RAG.
Specifically, the input questions are rewritten into queries composed of keywords by ChatGPT to mimic the daily usage of search engine.
The prompt for the rewritten task is shown in Appendix A.
In CRAG, the commercial web search API222In this study, Google Search API is utilized for searching. is adopted to generate a series of URL links for every query.
Moreover, we utilize the URL links to navigate web pages, transcribe their content, and employ the same knowledge refinement method as Section 4.4 to derive the relevant web knowledge, namely external knowledge.


##
5 Experiments


*[Figure: Table 1: Overall evaluation results on the test sets of four datasets. Results are separated based on the generation LLMs.
Bold number indicates the b]*


*[Figure: Table 3: Ablation study for removing each knowledge utilization operation on the PopQA dataset in terms of accuracy.
Removing document refinement deno]*


#### The impact of each triggered action.


To further verify the effectiveness of triggered actions designed in the retrieval evaluator, ablation tests for removing each single action in the proposed method were conducted as shown in Table 2.
Evaluations on the PopQA dataset were conducted to demonstrate the performance change in terms of accuracy.
Specifically, when the action Correct or Incorrect was removed, it was merged with Ambiguous so that the proportion that originally triggered Correct or Incorrect would trigger Ambiguous.
On the other hand, when the action Ambiguous was removed, there was only one threshold against which all input queries clearly triggered Correct or Incorrect.
From these results, it can be seen that there was a performance drop no matter which action was removed, illustrating that each action contributed to improving the robustness of generation.


#### The impact of each knowledge utilization operation.


Table 3 illustrated how the performance changed if a key knowledge utilization operation was ablated.
Evaluations on the PopQA dataset in terms of accuracy were conducted by individually removing the knowledge utilization operations of document refinement, search query rewriting, and external knowledge selection.
Removing document refinement denoted that the original retrieved documents were directly fed to the following generator, as in most existing works.
Additionally, removing search query rewriting denoted that questions were not rewritten into queries consisting of keywords during knowledge searching.
Eventually, removing knowledge selection denoted that all searched content of web pages was all regarded as the external knowledge without selection.
These results help derive the findings that the performance of the final system degraded no matter which knowledge utilization operation was removed, revealing that each knowledge utilization operation contributed to improving the utilization of knowledge.


###
5.5 Accuracy of the Retrieval Evaluator


*[Figure: Table 4: Evaluation of our retrieval evaluator and ChatGPT for the retrieval results on the PopQA dataset.]*


The quality of the retrieval evaluator significantly determined the performance of the entire system.
Given the document retrieval results, we assessed whether the retrieval evaluator can accurately determine the overall quality of these results.
The assessment accuracy of our retrieval evaluator and the commercial LLM ChatGPT on the document retrieval results was shown in Table 4.
The prompts of ChatGPT, ChatGPT-CoT, and ChatGPT-few-shot used in our experiments can be referred to in Appendix A.
Results reveal that the lightweight T5-based retrieval evaluator significantly outperformed the competitive ChatGPT in all settings.


###
5.6 Robustness to Retrieval Performance


*[Figure: Figure 3: The generation performance of Self-RAG and Self-CRAG given different retrieval performance on the PopQA dataset.]*


To further verify the robustness of the proposed method to retrieval performance, we studied how the generation performance changed given different retrieval performance.
A part of accurate retrieval results were deliberately removed at random to imitate a low-quality retriever and evaluate how the performance changed.
Figure 3 demonstrated the performance change of Self-RAG and Self-CRAG on the PopQA dataset.
It can be seen that the generation performance of Self-RAG and Self-CRAG dropped as the retrieval performance dropped, indicating that the generator relied heavily on the quality of the retriever.
Furthermore, as the retrieval performance dropped, the generation performance of Self-CRAG dropped more slightly than that of Self-RAG.
These results imply the superiority of Self-CRAG over Self-RAG on enhancing the robustness to retrieval performance.


##
6 Conclusion


This paper studies the problem where RAG-based approaches are challenged if retrieval goes wrong, thereby exposing inaccurate knowledge to generative LMs.
To mitigate this problem, we propose the plug-and-play Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation (CRAG) to improve the robustness of generation.
Essentially, a retrieval evaluator is to estimate and trigger three actions discriminately.
With the further help of web search and optimized knowledge utilization operations, CRAG has significantly improved the ability of automatic self-correction and efficient utilization of retrieved documents.
Experiments coupling CRAG with standard RAG and Self-RAG extensively demonstrate its adaptability to RAG-based approaches, and those on four datasets demonstrate its generalizability across short- and long-form generation tasks.


## References


Anil et al. (2023)

Rohan Anil, Andrew M. Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lepikhin, Alexandre Passos, Siamak Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng Chen, Eric Chu, Jonathan H. Clark, Laurent El Shafey, Yanping Huang, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Gaurav Mishra, Erica Moreira, Mark Omernick, Kevin Robinson, Sebastian Ruder, et al. 2023.


PaLM 2 technical report.


CoRR, abs/2305.10403.


Asai et al. (2023)

Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023.


Self-rag: Learning to retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection.


CoRR, abs/2310.11511.


Bang et al. (2023)

Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023.


A multitask, multilingual, multimodal evaluation of chatgpt on reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity.


CoRR, abs/2302.04023.


Bhakthavatsalam et al. (2021)

Sumithra Bhakthavatsalam, Daniel Khashabi, Tushar Khot, Bhavana Dalvi Mishra, Kyle Richardson, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, Oyvind Tafjord, and Peter Clark. 2021.


Think you have solved direct-answer question answering? try arc-da, the direct-answer AI2 reasoning challenge.


CoRR, abs/2102.03315.


Brown et al. (2020)

Tom B Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, et al. 2020.


Language models are few-shot learners.


In Advances in neural information processing systems, pages 1877–1901.


Chowdhery et al. (2023)

Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, Parker Schuh, Kensen Shi, Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Joshua Maynez, Abhishek Rao, Parker Barnes, Yi Tay, Noam Shazeer, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Emily Reif, Nan Du, et al. 2023.


PaLM: Scaling language modeling with pathways.


J. Mach. Learn. Res., 24:240:1–240:113.


Dhuliawala et al. (2023)

Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Mojtaba Komeili, Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Jason Weston. 2023.


Chain-of-verification reduces hallucination in large language models.


CoRR, abs/2309.11495.


Dubois et al. (2023)

Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Rohan Taori, Tianyi Zhang, Ishaan Gulrajani, Jimmy Ba, Carlos Guestrin, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. 2023.


Alpacafarm: A simulation framework for methods that learn from human feedback.


CoRR, abs/2305.14387.


Guu et al. (2020)

Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020.


Retrieval augmented language model pre-training.


In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2020, 13-18 July 2020, Virtual Event, volume 119 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 3929–3938. PMLR.


Ji et al. (2023)

Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Yejin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023.


Survey of hallucination in natural language generation.


ACM Comput. Surv., 55(12):248:1–248:38.


Jiang et al. (2023)

Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023.


Active retrieval augmented generation.


In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023, pages 7969–7992. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Komeili et al. (2022)

Mojtaba Komeili, Kurt Shuster, and Jason Weston. 2022.


Internet-augmented dialogue generation.


In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27, 2022, pages 8460–8478. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Lewis et al. (2020)

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, and Aleksandra others Piktus. 2020.


Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks.


Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474.


Li et al. (2022)

Huayang Li, Yixuan Su, Deng Cai, Yan Wang, and Lemao Liu. 2022.


A survey on retrieval-augmented text generation.


CoRR, abs/2202.01110.


Luo et al. (2023)

Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Yuan Gong, Tianhua Zhang, Yoon Kim, Xixin Wu, Danny Fox, Helen Meng, and James R. Glass. 2023.


SAIL: search-augmented instruction learning.


CoRR, abs/2305.15225.


Mallen et al. (2023)

Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023.


When not to trust language models: Investigating effectiveness of parametric and non-parametric memories.


In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2023, Toronto, Canada, July 9-14, 2023, pages 9802–9822. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Min et al. (2023)

Sewon Min, Kalpesh Krishna, Xinxi Lyu, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei Koh, Mohit Iyyer, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023.


Factscore: Fine-grained atomic evaluation of factual precision in long form text generation.


In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023, pages 12076–12100. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Muhlgay et al. (2023)

Dor Muhlgay, Ori Ram, Inbal Magar, Yoav Levine, Nir Ratner, Yonatan Belinkov, Omri Abend, Kevin Leyton-Brown, Amnon Shashua, and Yoav Shoham. 2023.


Generating benchmarks for factuality evaluation of language models.


CoRR, abs/2307.06908.


OpenAI (2023)

OpenAI. 2023.


GPT-4 technical report.


CoRR, abs/2303.08774.


Ouyang et al. (2022)

Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll L. Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton, Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul F. Christiano, Jan Leike, and Ryan Lowe. 2022.


Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback.


In NeurIPS.


Piktus et al. (2021)

Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Dmytro Okhonko, Samuel Broscheit, Gautier Izacard, Patrick S. H. Lewis, Barlas Oguz, Edouard Grave, Wen-tau Yih, and Sebastian Riedel. 2021.


The web is your oyster - knowledge-intensive NLP against a very large web corpus.


CoRR, abs/2112.09924.


Qin et al. (2023)

Chengwei Qin, Aston Zhang, Zhuosheng Zhang, Jiaao Chen, Michihiro Yasunaga, and Diyi Yang. 2023.


Is chatgpt a general-purpose natural language processing task solver?


CoRR, abs/2302.06476.


Raffel et al. (2020)

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020.


Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer.


J. Mach. Learn. Res., 21:140:1–140:67.


Rony et al. (2022)

Md Rashad Al Hasan Rony, Ricardo Usbeck, and Jens Lehmann. 2022.


Dialokg: Knowledge-structure aware task-oriented dialogue generation.


arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.09149.


Schick et al. (2023)

Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023.


Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools.


CoRR, abs/2302.04761.


Shi et al. (2023)

Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed H. Chi, Nathanael Schärli, and Denny Zhou. 2023.


Large language models can be easily distracted by irrelevant context.


In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 202 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 31210–31227. PMLR.


Shuster et al. (2021)

Kurt Shuster, Spencer Poff, Moya Chen, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston. 2021.


Retrieval augmentation reduces hallucination in conversation.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021, Virtual Event / Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 16-20 November, 2021, pages 3784–3803. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Tan et al. (2022)

Chao-Hong Tan, Jia-Chen Gu, Chongyang Tao, Zhen-Hua Ling, Can Xu, Huang Hu, Xiubo Geng, and Daxin Jiang. 2022.


Tegtok: Augmenting text generation via task-specific and open-world knowledge.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27, 2022, pages 1597–1609. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Touvron et al. (2023a)

Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, Aurélien Rodriguez, Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, and Guillaume Lample. 2023a.


Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models.


CoRR, abs/2302.13971.


Touvron et al. (2023b)

Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, Dan Bikel, Lukas Blecher, et al. 2023b.


Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models.


CoRR, abs/2307.09288.


Yoran et al. (2023)

Ori Yoran, Tomer Wolfson, Ori Ram, and Jonathan Berant. 2023.


Making retrieval-augmented language models robust to irrelevant context.


CoRR, abs/2310.01558.


Zhang et al. (2023a)

Tianhua Zhang, Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Wei Fang, Luc Gaitskell, Thomas Hartvigsen, Xixin Wu, Danny Fox, Helen Meng, and James R. Glass. 2023a.


Interpretable unified language checking.


CoRR, abs/2304.03728.


Zhang et al. (2023b)

Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu, Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang, Yulong Chen, Longyue Wang, Anh Tuan Luu, Wei Bi, Freda Shi, and Shuming Shi. 2023b.


Siren’s song in the AI ocean: A survey on hallucination in large language models.


CoRR, abs/2309.01219.


Zhong et al. (2023)

Qihuang Zhong, Liang Ding, Juhua Liu, Bo Du, and Dacheng Tao. 2023.


Can chatgpt understand too? A comparative study on chatgpt and fine-tuned BERT.


CoRR, abs/2302.10198.


##
Appendix A Task Prompts


The prompts for generating knowledge keywords as web search queries were illustrated in Table 5.


*[Figure: Table 5: The few-shot prompt to GPT-3.5 Turbo for generating knowledge keywords as web search queries.]*


The prompts to instruct ChatGPT as the evaluator were illustrated in Table 6, Table 7, and Table 8 respectively.


*[Figure: Table 6: The direct prompt to GPT-3.5 Turbo as the evaluator.]*


*[Figure: Table 7: The prompt to GPT-3.5 Turbo with Chain-of-Thought as the evaluator.]*


*[Figure: Table 8: The few-shot prompt to GPT-3.5 Turbo as the evaluator.]*


##
Appendix B Implementation Details


Evaluator: We fine-tuned the task-specific retrieval evaluator model based on the lightweight T5-large Raffel et al. (2020) pre-trained model.
Its parameter size is much smaller than the most current LLMs such as the LLaMA series Touvron et al. (2023a, b) which are adopted by Self-RAG, PaLM Chowdhery et al. (2023); Anil et al. (2023) series, GPT series Brown et al. (2020); Ouyang et al. (2022); OpenAI (2023), and so on.
The two confidence thresholds for triggering one of the three actions were calculated on the experience of the training set, to maximize the overall accuracy with a false-positive punishment.
The maximization function can be concluded as :
[table]


here _{total}` means all samples and _{neg}` means all samples that are judged as incorrect, `\alpha` is set to 1 in this experiments.
As the trained evaluator tends to predict polarizing scores, the first threshold is often set around 0.5, such as 0.59 on PopQA and 0.5 on PubQA, and the second threshold is set around -0.9.


Internal Knowledge:
To obtain fine-grained retrieval results, we segmented the retrieved results into internal strips.
If a retrieved result is as short as one or two sentences, it is regarded as an individual strip, otherwise, retrieval documents are required to be split into smaller units which generally consist of a few sentences according to the total length.
The scale is assumed to include an independent piece of information, and the filtering is based on the segments.
We directly adopted the evaluator again for knowledge strips filtering, and the top-k is set to 5, filter threshold as -0.5.


External Knowledge: Google Search API was adopted to search for the relevant URLs, top-k is set to 5, and pages from Wikipedia will be added preferentially.
The searched web pages are generally in the form of HTML files, where content is split with special tokens like <p> and </p>.
Thus an extra segmentation like the knowledge refinement is not required, related knowledge paragraphs can be directly selected with the evaluator similar to internal knowledge.


Generator: As CRAG is a plug-and-play method, all generation models that can be utilized in RAG fit our approach as well.
To be consistent with baselines for comparison, we adopted LLaMA2 Touvron et al. (2023b) for the generation.
We first introduced the LLaMA2-hf-7b from huggingface to generate responses.
Since Self-RAG Asai et al. (2023) fine-tuned LLaMA2 and reached a new state-of-the-art performance on several tasks, we further utilized the launched model, SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b, as a new generator to be consistent with their work and study the specific improvement of our method.


Self-CRAG:
To demonstrate that our plug-and-play approach can be utilized in other concurrent studies, we specifically designed to insert our CRAG into the Self-RAG Asai et al. (2023) framework and named it Self-CRAG.
Self-RAG is an advanced RAG approach that introduces a critic model to decide whether to retrieve and which retrieved document to be referred for generation.
It meets our demand for deciding which action to be triggered, thus we replaced the retrieved items in Self-RAG with our processed internal knowledge for Correct, external knowledge for Incorrect, and combined knowledge for Ambiguous.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►