# PL-MTEB: Polish Massive Text Embedding Benchmark

**arXiv ID**: 2405.10138v2
**Authors**: Rafał Poświata, Sławomir Dadas, Michał Perełkiewicz
**Published**: 2024-05-16
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10138v2
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2405.10138] PL-MTEB: Polish Massive Text Embedding Benchmark


# PL-MTEB: Polish Massive Text Embedding Benchmark


Rafał Poświata, Sławomir Dadas, Michał Perełkiewicz
National Information Processing Institute, Warsaw, Poland
{rposwiata, sdadas, mperelkiewicz}@opi.org.pl


###### Abstract


In this paper, we introduce the Polish Massive Text Embedding Benchmark (PL-MTEB), a comprehensive benchmark for text embeddings in Polish. The PL-MTEB consists of 28 diverse NLP tasks from 5 task types. We adapted the tasks based on previously used datasets by the Polish NLP community. In addition, we created a new PLSC (Polish Library of Science Corpus) dataset consisting of titles and abstracts of scientific publications in Polish, which was used as the basis for two novel clustering tasks. We evaluated 15 publicly available models for text embedding, including Polish and multilingual ones, and collected detailed results for individual tasks and aggregated results for each task type and the entire benchmark. PL-MTEB comes with open-source code at https://github.com/rafalposwiata/pl-mteb.


Keywords text embedding   `\cdot`
Polish language   `\cdot`
text classification   `\cdot`
clustering   `\cdot`
pair classification   `\cdot`
information retrieval   `\cdot`
semantic textual similarity


##
1 Introduction


Text embeddings are used in many NLP tasks, including document clustering (Aggarwal and Zhai, 2012), semantic search (Huang et al., 2020), question answering (Karpukhin et al., 2020) or classification (Muennighoff et al., 2023). In many cases, they are fundamental elements of the created systems and significantly impact their performance. Therefore, it is important to select the appropriate embedding model based on the results of its evaluation. Most often, evaluation is conducted on individual tasks using a limited set of datasets, leaving the open question of how such embedding models would work for other tasks. To solve this problem, Muennighoff et al. (2023) created a Massive Text Embedding Benchmark (MTEB). MTEB provides a simple and clear way to examine how the model behaves for different types of tasks. Most of the tasks in MTEB are based on English-language datasets, and only a few are multilingual, making it impossible to do a good comparison of models for languages other than English. Therefore, extensions to MTEB with language-specific task sets have begun to appear, among which are C-MTEB (Xiao et al., 2023) for Chinese, F-MTEB111https://github.com/Lyon-NLP/mteb-french for French and the Scandinavian Embedding Benchmark222https://kennethenevoldsen.github.io/scandinavian-embedding-benchmark/ for Danish, Norwegian and Swedish. In addition, Wehrli et al. (2024) added clustering tasks for German. In this work, we follow this path by introducing PL-MTEB (Polish Massive Text Embedding Benchmark), a comprehensive benchmark for text embeddings for Polish. The scope of work carried out in this publication is as follows:


•


PL-MTEB: a comprehensive benchmark consisting of 28 tasks from 5 groups (classification, clustering, pair classification, retrieval, and semantic textual similarity), designed to evaluate text embeddings for the Polish language.


•


Preparation of a new dataset the PLSC (Polish Library of Science Corpus), consisting of titles and abstracts of scientific publications in Polish, which was used as the basis for two clustering tasks.


•


Evaluation of 15 models (8 for Polish and 7 multilingual) and collection of results.


•


Integration with MTEB and make the source code used in experiments available to the public.


##
2 Related work


###
2.1 Benchmarks


GLUE (Wang et al., 2018) or SuperGLUE (Wang et al., 2019) are well-known benchmarks for tracking NLP progress. They are mainly designed to compare natural language understanding systems. However, they are unsuitable for evaluating text embeddings, so dedicated benchmarks like SentEval (Conneau and Kiela, 2018) or BEIR (Thakur et al., 2021) have emerged. MTEB (Muennighoff et al., 2023) incorporates the above benchmarks, creating an accessible evaluation framework. In the case of Polish, benchmarks similar to (Super)GLUE are KLEJ (Rybak et al., 2020) and LEPISZCZE (Augustyniak et al., 2022).


To this moment, in most cases, text embeddings evaluation for Polish language was performed on individual tasks. Krasnowska-Kieraś and Wróblewska (2019) evaluated text embeddings on a single dataset for textual relatedness.
Dadas et al. (2020a), in their evaluation, used 3 task types (classification, textual entailment, and semantic relatedness), where only classification consisted of more than one task.
Dadas (2022) extended this evaluation by adding 3 more tasks, one of each type. In the area of information retrieval, two benchmarks for Polish have appeared recently. The first is BEIR-PL (Wojtasik et al., 2023), which is the Polish equivalent of BEIR (Thakur et al., 2021). The second is PIRB (Dadas et al., 2024), a large benchmark consisting of 41 tasks.


###
2.2 Embedding Models


A few years ago, the standard method of creating text embeddings was to calculate arithmetic or weighted averages of the vectors of all words in the text. These vectors were obtained using word embedding models such as Word2Vec (Mikolov et al., 2013a, b), GloVe (Pennington et al., 2014) or FastText (Bojanowski et al., 2017). The main disadvantage of these methods was the lack of context awareness.
The emergence of the Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) architecture, introducing context awareness through the use of the self-attention mechanism, forms the foundation of most recent embedding models. Reimers and Gurevych (2019) have shown that additional fine-tuning of a network composed of two transformer models leads to a model that produces high-quality sentence embeddings. Further development of the field is mainly models that use contrastive loss objective, among which we can include: SimCSE (Gao et al., 2021), TSDAE (Wang et al., 2021), GTR (Ni et al., 2022), SGPT (Muennighoff, 2022), E5 (Wang et al., 2022) or BGE (Xiao et al., 2023).


##
3 The PL-MTEB Benchmark


Pl-MTEB is a benchmark consisting of two modules. The first is used to configure and run text embedding model evaluations and collect results. The second is an extended version of MTEB, containing a collection of tasks defined for Polish and evaluation methods. The following subsections will present the types of tasks that PL-MTEB contains and a brief description of each task separately.


###
3.1 Task Types and Metrics


The benchmark consists of the following 5 task types333There are 8 types of tasks in MTEB, but we could not include all of them, which was due to the lack of datasets in Polish for Summarization and Reranking, and the Bitext Mining task is inadequate for case of monolingual benchmark.:


Classification The classification task is to predict label based on input embedding using previously trained logistic regression classifier. Both the train and test set are embedded with the provided model. The accuracy is used as the main metric.


Clustering Given a set of sentences or paragraphs, the goal of clustering is to group them into meaningful clusters. A mini-batch k-means model with batch size 500 and k equal to the number of different labels is trained on the embedded texts. The model is scored using v-measure (Rosenberg and Hirschberg, 2007).


Pair Classification Having a pair of embedded texts, predict their relationship as binary label based on the similarity between them. The average precision score based on cosine similarity is the main metric.


Retrieval The retrieval task is presented with corpus, queries and a mapping for each query to relevant documents from the corpus. The provided model is used to embed all queries and all corpus documents. The goal is to find relevant documents based on query. Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain at 10 (nDCG@10) serves as the main metric.


Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) Given a pair of sentences, the goal is to measure their correlation using cosine similarity score between their embeddings. Spearman correlation based on cosine similarity is used as the main metric.


*[Figure: Figure 1: An overview of tasks in PL-MTEB.]*


###
3.2 Tasks


Figure 1 provides an overview of tasks available in PL-MTEB.
Most of the tasks in PL-MTEB come from the publications presented in subsection 2.1 which we have adapted for integration with MTEB. The exception is the clustering task where, due to the specificity of the data needed, i.e., at least several categories to which texts were assigned, only one 8Tags task from Dadas et al. (2020a) work was suitable. To increase the number of tasks in this category, we prepared the PLSC (Polish Library of Science Corpus) dataset based on Library of Science444https://bibliotekanauki.pl/, an open metadata repository about scientific publications. The corpus comprises more than 100K records containing titles and abstracts of publications assigned to 8 scientific fields and 47 scientific disciplines. This collection was used to prepare two tasks: PlscS2S and PlscP2P555This is inspired by tasks from MTEB, such as ArxivS2S and ArxivP2P. S2S (sentence to sentence) and P2P (paragraph to paragraph) mean that a
sentence/paragraph is compared with another sentence/paragraph, where the paragraph is in the general longer fragment of text, e.g., title + abstract..
Datasets used for all tasks are available on the Hugging Face Hub666https://huggingface.co/datasets. Below we provide a brief description of each of the tasks in the PL-MTEB.


####
3.2.1 Classification


CBD (Ptaszynski et al., 2019) The Cyberbullying Detection task, where the goal is to predict if tweet contains a cyberbullying content.


PAC (Augustyniak et al., 2022) Polish Abusive Clauses Dataset used to formulate binary classification task of detecting abusive clauses.


PolEmo2.0-IN and PolEmo2.0-OUT (Kocoń et al., 2019) Based on a collection of Polish online reviews from four domains: medicine, hotels, products and school. The PolEmo2.0-IN task is to predict the sentiment of in-domain (medicine and hotels) reviews. The PolEmo2.0-OUT task is to predict the sentiment of out-of-domain (products and school) reviews using models train on reviews from medicine and hotels domains.


MassiveIntent and MassiveScenario (FitzGerald et al., 2022) The tasks include intent and scenario detection from the content of utterances addressed to Amazon’s Alexa virtual assistant. They are based on a multilingual dataset with 51 available languages, of which we use only Polish-language subset. The tasks were already in MTEB.


AllegroReviews (Rybak et al., 2020) Based on a Polish dataset for sentiment classification on reviews from e-commerce marketplace Allegro. The task is to predict a rating ranging from 1 to 5.


####
3.2.2 Clustering


8Tags (Dadas et al., 2020a) Clustering of headlines from social media posts in Polish belonging to 8 categories: film, history, food, medicine, motorization, work, sport and technology.


PlscS2S and PlscP2P Tasks involve clustering publication titles and titles with abstracts, respectively, in terms of their scientific field and scientific disciplines. Tasks based on the dataset prepared by us.


####
3.2.3 Pair Classification


SICK-E-PL (Dadas et al., 2020a) The binary variant of textual entailment task based on the Polish version of Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge (SICK) (Marelli et al., 2014) dataset, where labels ’neutral’ and ’contradiction’ was merged to create one ’not entailed’ class.


CDSC-E (Wróblewska and Krasnowska-Kieraś, 2017) The binary variant of textual entailment task based on Compositional Distributional Semantics Corpus, where labels ’neutral’ and ’contradiction’ was merged to create one ’not entailed’ class.


PPC (Dadas, 2022) A task to detect whether a given sentence is a paraphrase of another. Based on a Polish Paraphrase Corpus, class ’exact paraphrase’ and ’close paraphrase’ are merged.


PSC (Ogrodniczuk and Kopeć, 2014) The task is to detect whether two summaries relate to the same article. Base on The Polish Summaries Corpus.


####
3.2.4 Retrieval


All retrieval tasks are from BEIR-PL (Wojtasik et al., 2023), which was created by automatic translating dataset from BEIR (Thakur et al., 2021) to Polish language.


ArguAna-PL Retrieving the best counterargument to a given argument.


DBPedia-PL Searching for entities in the DBpedia knowledge base.


FiQA-PL Retrieving relevant documents from financial domain to a given query.


HotpotQA-PL A question answering task which requires reasoning over multiple paragraphs (multi-hop) and Wikipedia articles are the information source.


MSMARCO-PL A question answering task based on Bing questions and human generated answers.


NFCorpus-PL Retrieving relevant documents from NutrionFacts (medicine domain) to a given query.


NQ-PL A question answering task where the questions are from a Google search engine and the answers are annotated by a human based on Wikipedia articles.


Quora-PL Task is based on questions that are marked as duplicates on the Quora platform. Given a question, find other (duplicate) questions.


SCIDOCS-PL Citation prediction task, where the goal is to get cited scientific articles based on the title of the article that cites them.


SciFact-PL Verifing scientific claims using evidence from the research literature containing scientific paper abstracts.


TRECCOVID-PL Retrieving relevant scientific articles related to COVID-19 based on a given query.


####
3.2.5 Semantic Textual Similarity (STS)


SICK-R-PL (Dadas et al., 2020a) Textual relatedness task based on Polish version of Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge (SICK) (Marelli et al., 2014) dataset.


CDSC-R (Wróblewska and Krasnowska-Kieraś, 2017) Textual relatedness task based on Compositional Distributional Semantics Corpus.


STS22 (Chen et al., 2022) Task based on SemEval-2022 task 8, where the goal was to assess the similarity of two news articles. We use only Polish-language subset.
The task was already in MTEB.


##
4 Evaluation


###
4.1 Models


We evaluate on the test splits of all datasets except for MSMARCO-PL, where the dev split is used following Thakur et al. (2021).
We conducted the evaluations on models that were trained in a supervised manner and were recently SOTA solutions. Below is a brief description of the evaluated models.


LaBSE (Feng et al., 2022) A language-agnostic BERT sentence embedding model supporting 109 languages optimized for bi-text mining tasks.


Multilingual SBERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) Sentence-BERT (SBERT) is a modification of the pretrained BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) network that use siamese and triplet network structures to generate text embeddings. In our experiments we use three SBERT multilingual models: distiluse-base-multilingual-cased-v2, paraphrase-multilingual-MiniLM-L12-v2 and paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v2. These models were created using knowledge distillation (Reimers and Gurevych, 2020).


Silver Retriever (Rybak and Ogrodniczuk, 2023) Polish dense retrieval model trained on MAUPQA (Rybak, 2023) datasets with hard negatives mined employing a combination of heuristic rules and cross-encoders. Model was based on HerBERT language model (Mroczkowski et al., 2021).


Polish SBERT (Dadas, 2022) SBERT model trained using multilingual knowledge distillation technique and Polish-English bilingual corpus. In our experiments we use two such models: st-polish-paraphrase-from-mpnet and st-polish-paraphrase-from-distilroberta.


Multilingual E5 (Wang et al., 2022) Text encoder supporting over 100 languages, developed using two-stage training procedure. The first stage involved weakly-supervised training on a dataset of text pairs extracted from large internet corpora, such as Common Crawl. In the second stage, the model was fine-tuned in a supervised manner on several annotated datasets. We use three versions of this model: small (118M parameters), base (278M), and large (560M).


MMLW (Dadas et al., 2024) Another set of models trained using the knowledge distillation technique. Authors selected two groups of models as student models: pre-trained Polish RoBERTa language models (Dadas et al., 2020b) and multilingual E5 (Wang et al., 2022). As teachers, they chose English BGE (Xiao et al., 2023) models. Among the models they provided, we selected all general-purpose models that were not further fine-tuned for retrieval. Specifically, these models were:
mmlw-roberta-base, mmlw-roberta-large, mmlw-e5-small,
mmlw-e5-base and mmlw-e5-large.


###
4.2 Results


The results of our experiments are presented in Table 1. Looking at the average results for the entire benchmark, MMLW model trained on Polish RoBERTa large was the best. However, the average scores for each task type indicate that it is not the best, but the second best for clustering and retrieval tasks. The second model, in the base version, based on Polish RoBERT is also doing very well, achieving the best average score for clustring tasks and being second in pair classification and STS.
Referring to the detailed results presented in Tables 2–6, we observe that there is considerable variability between tasks. The results are interesting for classification type tasks where special attention should be given to the multilingul E5 large model, which is the best for both PolEmo tasks and second in CBD and AllegroReviews. It is also worth noting the relatively low score of the MMLW models on the PAC task. Results for other types of tasks indicate that the MMLW models are usually the best, or perform competitively with the best models for the selected tasks. In addition, there are cases where single models are best in only one task, e.g. st-polish-paraphrase-from-distilroberta in CBD or paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v2 in PPC.
To sum up, MMLW models achieve a good performace looking at averages, and are the best in many tasks, while there are only a single tasks where other models are better.


*[Figure: Table 1:
Average of the main metric per task type per model on PL-MTEB. The best score for a given column is marked in bold, and the second best is u]*


*[Figure: Table 2:
Evaluation results on classification tasks using accuracy metric. The best score for a given column is marked in bold, and the second best i]*


*[Figure: Table 3:
Evaluation results on clustering tasks using v-measure. The best score for a given column is marked in bold, and the second best is underlin]*


*[Figure: Table 4:
Evaluation results on pair classification tasks using average precision score based on cosine similarity. The best score for a given column ]*


*[Figure: Table 5:
Evaluation results on retrieval tasks using nDCG@10. The best score for a given column is marked in bold, and the second best is underlined.]*


*[Figure: Table 6:
Evaluation results on STS tasks using Spearman correlation based on cosine similarity. The best score for a given column is marked in bold, ]*


##
5 Conclusion


In this work, we have introduced PL-MTEB, a text embedding benchmark for the Polish language consisting of 28 tasks belonging to 5 categories.
We evaluated 15 models, including Polish and multilingual ones. The MMLW achieved the best average results for all task types.
We believe that our work will help standardize the evaluation of text embedding models for Polish. At the same time, tasks from PL-MTEB can be used by the wider international community for more accurate evaluations of multilingual embeddings. In the future, we plan to expand the benchmark to include additional tasks in each category.


The source code for evaluating new models or reproducing our experiments is available at https://github.com/rafalposwiata/pl-mteb. As PL-MTEB is part of the MTEB project, the source code of the tasks themselves and details related to the evaluation are at https://github.com/embeddings-benchmark/mteb. In addition, the evaluation results are available online as a separate tab on the public MTEB leaderboard777https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard.


## References


Aggarwal and Zhai [2012]

Charu C. Aggarwal and ChengXiang Zhai.


A Survey of Text Clustering Algorithms, pages 77–128.


Springer US, Boston, MA, 2012.


ISBN 978-1-4614-3223-4.


doi:10.1007/978-1-4614-3223-4_4.


Huang et al. [2020]

Jui-Ting Huang, Ashish Sharma, Shuying Sun, Li Xia, David Zhang, Philip Pronin, Janani Padmanabhan, Giuseppe Ottaviano, and Linjun Yang.


Embedding-based retrieval in facebook search.


In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, KDD ’20, page 2553–2561, New York, NY, USA, 2020. Association for Computing Machinery.


ISBN 9781450379984.


doi:10.1145/3394486.3403305.


Karpukhin et al. [2020]

Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih.


Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering.


In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.550.


Muennighoff et al. [2023]

Niklas Muennighoff, Nouamane Tazi, Loic Magne, and Nils Reimers.


MTEB: Massive Text Embedding Benchmark.


In Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 2014–2037, Dubrovnik, Croatia, May 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2023.eacl-main.148.


Xiao et al. [2023]

Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Peitian Zhang, and Niklas Muennighof.


C-Pack: Packaged Resources To Advance General Chinese Embedding, 2023.


Wehrli et al. [2024]

Silvan Wehrli, Bert Arnrich, and Christopher Irrgang.


German text embedding clustering benchmark, 2024.


Wang et al. [2018]

Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman.


GLUE: A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding.


In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP, pages 353–355, Brussels, Belgium, November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/W18-5446.


Wang et al. [2019]

Alex Wang, Yada Pruksachatkun, Nikita Nangia, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel R. Bowman.


SuperGLUE: A Stickier Benchmark for General-Purpose Language Understanding Systems.


Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, 2019.


Conneau and Kiela [2018]

Alexis Conneau and Douwe Kiela.


SentEval: An evaluation toolkit for universal sentence representations.


In Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018), Miyazaki, Japan, May 2018. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).


Thakur et al. [2021]

Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych.


BEIR: A heterogeneous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval models.


In Thirty-fifth Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Round 2), 2021.


Rybak et al. [2020]

Piotr Rybak, Robert Mroczkowski, Janusz Tracz, and Ireneusz Gawlik.


KLEJ: Comprehensive Benchmark for Polish Language Understanding.


In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1191–1201, Online, July 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.111.


Augustyniak et al. [2022]

Lukasz Augustyniak, Kamil Tagowski, Albert Sawczyn, Denis Janiak, Roman Bartusiak, Adrian Szymczak, Arkadiusz Janz, Piotr Szymański, Marcin Wątroba, Mikoł aj Morzy, Tomasz Kajdanowicz, and Maciej Piasecki.


This is the way: designing and compiling LEPISZCZE, a comprehensive NLP benchmark for Polish.


In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 35, pages 21805–21818. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022.


Krasnowska-Kieraś and Wróblewska [2019]

Katarzyna Krasnowska-Kieraś and Alina Wróblewska.


Empirical Linguistic Study of Sentence Embeddings.


In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 5729–5739, Florence, Italy, July 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/P19-1573.


Dadas et al. [2020a]

Slawomir Dadas, Michał Perełkiewicz, and Rafał Poświata.


Evaluation of Sentence Representations in Polish.


In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pages 1674–1680, Marseille, France, May 2020a. European Language Resources Association.


ISBN 979-10-95546-34-4.


Dadas [2022]

Sławomir Dadas.


Training Effective Neural Sentence Encoders from Automatically Mined Paraphrases.


In 2022 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), pages 371–378, 2022.


doi:10.1109/SMC53654.2022.9945218.


Wojtasik et al. [2023]

Konrad Wojtasik, Vadim Shishkin, Kacper Wołowiec, Arkadiusz Janz, and Maciej Piasecki.


BEIR-PL: Zero Shot Information Retrieval Benchmark for the Polish Language, 2023.


Dadas et al. [2024]

Sławomir Dadas, Michał Perełkiewicz, and Rafał Poświata.


PIRB: A Comprehensive Benchmark of Polish Dense and Hybrid Text Retrieval Methods, 2024.


Mikolov et al. [2013a]

Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean.


Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and Their Compositionality.


In Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems - Volume 2, NIPS’13, page 3111–3119, Red Hook, NY, USA, 2013a. Curran Associates Inc.


Mikolov et al. [2013b]

Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, and Greg Corrado ands Jeffrey Dean.


Efficient Estimation of Word Representations in Vector Space.


In Yoshua Bengio and Yann LeCun, editors, International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2013, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA, May 2-4, 2013, Workshop Track Proceedings, 2013b.


Pennington et al. [2014]

Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning.


GloVe: Global Vectors for Word Representation.


In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1532–1543, Doha, Qatar, October 2014. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.3115/v1/D14-1162.


Bojanowski et al. [2017]

Piotr Bojanowski, Edouard Grave, Armand Joulin, and Tomas Mikolov.


Enriching Word Vectors with Subword Information.


Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 5:135–146, 2017.


doi:10.1162/tacl_a_00051.


Vaswani et al. [2017]

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Ł ukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin.


Attention is all you need.


In I. Guyon, U. Von Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017.


Reimers and Gurevych [2019]

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych.


Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks.


In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 3982–3992, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/D19-1410.


Gao et al. [2021]

Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen.


SimCSE: Simple contrastive learning of sentence embeddings.


In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 6894–6910, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.552.


Wang et al. [2021]

Kexin Wang, Nils Reimers, and Iryna Gurevych.


TSDAE: Using transformer-based sequential denoising auto-encoderfor unsupervised sentence embedding learning.


In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021, pages 671–688, Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2021.findings-emnlp.59.


Ni et al. [2022]

Jianmo Ni, Chen Qu, Jing Lu, Zhuyun Dai, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Ji Ma, Vincent Zhao, Yi Luan, Keith Hall, Ming-Wei Chang, and Yinfei Yang.


Large dual encoders are generalizable retrievers.


In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 9844–9855, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp-main.669.


Muennighoff [2022]

Niklas Muennighoff.


Sgpt: Gpt sentence embeddings for semantic search, 2022.


Wang et al. [2022]

Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei.


Text Embeddings by Weakly-Supervised Contrastive Pre-training, 2022.


Rosenberg and Hirschberg [2007]

Andrew Rosenberg and Julia Hirschberg.


V-Measure: A Conditional Entropy-Based External Cluster Evaluation Measure.


In Proceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL), pages 410–420, Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. Association for Computational Linguistics.


Ptaszynski et al. [2019]

Michal Ptaszynski, Agata Pieciukiewicz, and Paweł Dybała.


Results of the poleval 2019 shared task 6: First dataset and open shared task for automatic cyberbullying detection in polish twitter.


Proceedings of the PolEval 2019 Workshop, page 89, 2019.


Kocoń et al. [2019]

Jan Kocoń, Piotr Miłkowski, and Monika Zaśko-Zielińska.


Multi-level sentiment analysis of PolEmo 2.0: Extended corpus of multi-domain consumer reviews.


In Proceedings of the 23rd Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL), pages 980–991, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/K19-1092.


FitzGerald et al. [2022]

Jack FitzGerald, Christopher Hench, Charith Peris, Scott Mackie, Kay Rottmann, Ana Sanchez, Aaron Nash, Liam Urbach, Vishesh Kakarala, Richa Singh, Swetha Ranganath, Laurie Crist, Misha Britan, Wouter Leeuwis, Gokhan Tur, and Prem Natarajan.


Massive: A 1m-example multilingual natural language understanding dataset with 51 typologically-diverse languages, 2022.


Marelli et al. [2014]

Marco Marelli, Stefano Menini, Marco Baroni, Luisa Bentivogli, Raffaella Bernardi, and Roberto Zamparelli.


A SICK cure for the evaluation of compositional distributional semantic models.


In Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’14), pages 216–223, Reykjavik, Iceland, May 2014. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).


Wróblewska and Krasnowska-Kieraś [2017]

Alina Wróblewska and Katarzyna Krasnowska-Kieraś.


Polish evaluation dataset for compositional distributional semantics models.


In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 784–792, 2017.


Ogrodniczuk and Kopeć [2014]

Maciej Ogrodniczuk and Mateusz Kopeć.


The Polish Summaries Corpus.


In Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, LREC 2014, 2014.


Chen et al. [2022]

Xi Chen, Ali Zeynali, Chico Camargo, Fabian Flöck, Devin Gaffney, Przemyslaw Grabowicz, Scott Hale, David Jurgens, and Mattia Samory.


SemEval-2022 task 8: Multilingual news article similarity.


In Proceedings of the 16th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2022), pages 1094–1106, Seattle, United States, July 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2022.semeval-1.155.


Feng et al. [2022]

Fangxiaoyu Feng, Yinfei Yang, Daniel Cer, Naveen Arivazhagan, and Wei Wang.


Language-agnostic BERT sentence embedding.


In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 878–891, Dublin, Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.62.


Devlin et al. [2019]

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova.


BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding.


In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/N19-1423.


Reimers and Gurevych [2020]

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych.


Making monolingual sentence embeddings multilingual using knowledge distillation.


In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 4512–4525, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics.


doi:10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.365.


Rybak and Ogrodniczuk [2023]

Piotr Rybak and Maciej Ogrodniczuk.


SilverRetriever: Advancing Neural Passage Retrieval for Polish Question Answering, 2023.


Rybak [2023]

Piotr Rybak.


Maupqa: Massive automatically-created polish question answering dataset.


In Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Slavic Natural Language Processing 2023 (SlavicNLP 2023), pages 11–16, 2023.


Mroczkowski et al. [2021]

Robert Mroczkowski, Piotr Rybak, Alina Wróblewska, and Ireneusz Gawlik.


Herbert: Efficiently pretrained transformer-based language model for polish.


In Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, pages 1–10, 2021.


Dadas et al. [2020b]

Sławomir Dadas, Michał Perełkiewicz, and Rafał Poświata.


Pre-training polish transformer-based language models at scale.


In Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing: 19th International Conference, ICAISC 2020, Zakopane, Poland, October 12-14, 2020, Proceedings, Part II 19, pages 301–314. Springer, 2020b.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►