# From Natural Language to SQL: Review of LLM-based Text-to-SQL Systems

**arXiv ID**: 2410.01066v2
**Authors**: Ali Mohammadjafari, Anthony S. Maida, Raju Gottumukkala
**Published**: 2024-10-01
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01066v2
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2410.01066] From Natural Language to SQL: Review of LLM-based Text-to-SQL Systems


# From Natural Language to SQL: Review of LLM-based Text-to-SQL Systems


Ali Mohammadjafari1, Anthony S. Maida2, Raju Gottumukkala2

1PhD Student, School of Computing and Informatics, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, LA, USA
2Associate Professor, School of Computing and Informatics, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, LA, USA
2Associate Professor, School of Mechanical Engineering, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, LA, USA
{Ali.mohammadjafari1, maida, raju}@louisiana.edu


###### Abstract


Since the onset of LLMs, translating natural language queries to structured SQL commands is assuming increasing. Unlike the previous reviews, this survey provides a comprehensive study of the evolution of LLM-based text-to-SQL systems, from early rule-based models to advanced LLM approaches, and how LLMs impacted this field. We discuss benchmarks, evaluation methods and evaluation metrics. Also, we uniquely study the role of integration of knowledge graphs for better contextual accuracy and schema linking in these systems. The current techniques fall into two categories: in-context learning of corpus and fine-tuning, which then leads to approaches such as zero-shot, few-shot learning from the end, and data augmentation. Finally, we highlight key challenges such as computational efficiency, model robustness, and data privacy with perspectives toward their development and improvements in potential areas for future of LLM-based text-to-SQL system.


###### Index Terms:

Text-to-SQL, Large Language Models, Database, Natural Language Processing, SQL Generation


##
I Introduction


###
I-A Overview of the Text-to-SQ task


In the big data era, organizations are increasingly reliant on relational databases to manage and analyze vast amounts of structured information. Nowadays, these databases are critical parts of many modern systems, from business intelligence to customer relationship management. As the volume of data increases, the need to query, extract, and make sense of this information has become critical in various sectors. However, querying databases often requires the use of Structured Query Language (SQL), a technical skill. This gap between users who need access to data and the specialized knowledge required to retrieve it has led to the development of text-to-SQL systems[1].


Text-to-SQL parsing is a well-established task in natural language processing (NLP) designed to bridge this gap. It translates natural language queries, written by users without SQL expertise, into executable SQL commands that can retrieve relevant information from a database. The goal is to democratize access to data, allowing non-expert users to query complex databases without knowledge to learn SQL syntax. This capability is important when the complexity of data increases which makes manual data exploration impractical and inefficient[2].


For example, consider a relational database that contains information about gas stations in Louisiana, with columns such as GasStationID, PARISH, NEED, STATION NAME, CITY, and WORKING_GAS_STATIONS_5_MILES among others. As we can see in Figure 1, suppose we have a natural language query: “Where can I find a gas station with power less than 2 miles from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette?” A text-to-SQL system would analyze this query, understand the user’s intent, and automatically generate the corresponding SQL query to extract the correct information from the database. In this case, the SQL query might look something like:


SELECT STATION_NAME, location
FROM gas_stations
WHERE fuel_available = ’Yes’
 AND distance < 2
 AND ST_Distance_Sphere(Point(long, lat),
 Point(University_Long,
 University_Lat)) < 2;


*[Figure: Figure 1:
The structure for text-to-SQL systems involves generating an SQL query based on the provided database schema and user utterance. Given the ]*


This SQL query retrieves all gas stations within a 2-mile radius of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette that have power. The text-to-SQL system enables the user to extract this specific information without needing to write the SQL query thus making complex data more accessible.


As mentioned before text-to-SQL systems are beneficial because they enable non-expert users to interact with databases in a natural way, eliminating the need for SQL knowledge and speeding up data retrieval processes. This is needed for systems that rely on data, such as healthcare, logistics, and finance systems where quick access to information can drive better decision-making and operational efficiency.


However, building reliable text-to-SQL systems is highly challenging. The complexity arises from several factors:


•


Linguistic Complexity and Ambiguity


Natural language queries often include complex structures such as nested clauses, pronouns, or vague terms. For example, a query might contain phrases like ”all gas stations in the area,” where ”area” could refer to a specific region not directly mentioned. Handling these complexities and ensuring the SQL query accurately captures the user’s intent is difficult.


•


Schema Understanding and Representation


To generate accurate SQL queries, text-to-SQL systems need a deep understanding of the database schema—the tables, columns, relationships, and constraints. In real-world applications, database schemas are often complex and can vary greatly between domains, making it challenging to map the natural language query correctly to the database schema [3].


•


Rare and Complex SQL Operations
Some queries involve uncommon SQL operations, such as nested sub-queries, joins across multiple tables, or window functions. These operations can be difficult for text-to-SQL models to generate, especially if they are not frequently seen during training[4].


•


Cross-Domain Generalization
Text-to-SQL models trained on one specific domain (e.g., customer service databases) may not generalize well to other domains (e.g., healthcare). Differences in schema structures, terminology, and query patterns make it difficult for models to perform consistently across a wide variety of databases[5].


In real-world applications, addressing these challenges is essential for the effectiveness of text-to-SQL systems. As databases become more complex, the accuracy of text-to-SQL models must be increased.


*[Figure: Figure 2: This diagram shows how text-to-SQL research has evolved over time, highlighting different implementation approaches. Each phase includes key]*


###
I-B Importance of Text-to-SQL


Text-to-SQL systems are becoming important as more organizations that are rely on relational databases to handle the ever-growing amounts of data in various sectors. According to the 2023 Stack Overflow Developer Survey, 51.52% of professional developers report using SQL in their work, making it one of the most widely used programming languages today, however, SQL is often a barrier for non-technical users because of its specialized syntax and technical nature. So, the text-to-SQL system creates a gap between the vast stores of data housed in relational databases and the ability of many users to retrieve and analyze that data efficiently [4].


The main objective of this survey is to bridge this knowledge gap by reviewing the advancements in text-to-SQL systems, which aim to democratize data access by enabling users to query databases using natural language. This capability is particularly important as databases grow larger and more complex, with modern systems spanning across various industries such as healthcare, finance, and logistics. Furthermore, as businesses increasingly turn to data-driven decision-making, the ability to extract useful insights from databases without the need for SQL expertise becomes crucial for maintaining a competitive edge.


However, as we mentioned in the previous section, despite the advancements in NLP and the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) in text-to-SQL systems, many challenges remain unresolved, these include handling ambiguous queries, adapting to cross-domain scenarios, and generating accurate queries for complex database structures. A survey of the current state-of-the-art techniques is essential to understanding previous progress and identifying the areas that require further exploration. By reviewing the most recent approaches and evaluation metrics, we aim to give researchers a clearer understanding of how text-to-SQL systems can evolve to meet real-world demands.


In this survey, we will highlight the key methods, benchmarks, and models that have shaped text-to-SQL research, while also exploring potential areas for future advancements. Given the growing need for natural language interfaces to structured databases, this review will help researchers for the next generation of systems that make data querying more accessible and efficient across a wide range of applications. A taxonomy tree is shown in Fig 4.


##
II History and Evolution of the Text-to-SQL


###
II-A Evolutionary Process


The development of text-to-SQL systems has come a long way. Initially, these systems relied on strict rules, but now they use advanced neural networks and powerful pre-trained language models (PLMs) [4]. Each step in this journey brought important innovations, making it easier for the models to understand and create SQL queries from everyday language, as shown in Figure 2. This progress has been crucial in handling the increasing complexity of modern databases and the questions users ask.


####
II-A1 Rule-Based Approaches


Early text-to-SQL systems used rule-based approaches. These systems used manually crafted grammar rules and heuristics to translate natural language queries into SQL commands. While effective in simple and domain-specific databases, these methods faced limitations in handling complex queries and diverse schemas [7]. Systems like LUNAR[8] and NaLIX[9] demonstrated the potential of semantic parsing but required significant manual feature engineering, hindering scalability and adaptability. As queries grew more complex, with ambiguity and nested structures, rule-based systems struggled to generalize across different domains and databases. This inflexibility, along with performance issues, prompted the shift toward data-driven approaches, paving the way for neural network-based models that could learn patterns from training data instead of relying solely on predefined rules[8], [9].


####
II-A2 Deep Learning Approaches


Around 2017, deep learning began to change this picture. Now it became a matter of training huge models to directly interpret natural language and produce corresponding SQL queries. The initial models in this family were small-scale approaches, like Seq2SQL and SQLNet[10] based on sequence-to-sequence models (specifically long short-term memory, or LSTM, and transformers)[11]. They also demonstrated an end-to-end, differentiable architecture in which text could be converted into SQL an appropriate neural architecture. This marked a considerable improvement in the performance, flexibility, and scalability over previous text-to-SQL systems [10],[12].


Later, more advanced models emerged, incorporating transformer-based architectures like BERT[13] and TaBERT[14], that improved the understanding of both the database schema and user intent. These models improved generalization to unseen databases by capturing dependencies between the natural language query and the underlying database schema. Despite these advances, challenges such as handling queries with nested structures, generalizing across domains, and efficiently mapping ambiguous natural language to structured SQL remain key areas of ongoing research [15], [14]


####
II-A3 Pre-trained Language Models


Natural language processing revolutionized by Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) shifted the paradigm from task-specific supervised learning to a more generalized pre-training method followed by fine-tuning approaches. Models like BERT[13] (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) and GPT[16] (Generative Pre-training Transformer) started this shift by using large-scale, unsupervised text datasets to pre-train models that could then be fine-tuned for specific tasks. The concept of PLMs, grounded in transfer learning, allowed models to get a deep understanding of natural language through extensive pre-training on vast datasets, and this understanding transferred to a variety of tasks, including text generation, sentiment analysis, and question-answering[17],[18].


In the context of Text-to-SQL, PLMs introduced major improvements by capturing richer semantic relationships between user queries and database schema structures. PLMs such as TaBERT and BERT-SQL[19] enabled the integration of both the natural language query and the database schema into a unified representation, improving the accuracy of SQL generation. These models addressed several challenges in text-to-SQL systems, such as handling complex queries with multiple joins, nested queries, and cross-domain generalization. However, PLMs did have limitations, particularly in terms of their need for domain-specific fine-tuning and the difficulty in understanding complex database schemas without additional schema linking mechanisms[20].


While PLMs advanced the state of text-to-SQL systems, they differ from the more recent Large Language Models (LLMs) in their approach to understanding and generating SQL. PLMs often need significant task-specific fine-tuning and schema linking to accurately translate complex queries, making them less flexible across multiple domains. In contrast, an LLM like GPT-3 is trained on large-scale and broader training data, allowing it to generate responses more flexibly, with less task-specific tuning. LLMs also benefit from prompt engineering, where well-constructed prompts guide the model’s response, making them adaptable across different databases and queries without the need for extensive additional training[18].


Thus, while PLMs were foundational in the evolution of text-to-SQL systems, the advent of LLMs represents a paradigm shift, reducing the need for fine-tuning and improving the models’ ability to handle complex, cross-domain queries with greater efficiency.


####
II-A4 Large Language Models


The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 [21], Codex[22], and LLaMa[23] has revolutionized natural language processing by significantly enhancing the capabilities of systems that perform complex language tasks, including text-to-SQL translation. LLMs represent a major step forward from traditional machine learning methods by leveraging their vast size and training on massive datasets to generate more accurate and sophisticated responses. These models have shown exceptional performance in tasks that require understanding and generating human-like text, often without needing additional fine-tuning [24].


In the context of text-to-SQL, LLMs capture more complex relationships between natural language queries and structured database schemas. Unlike pre-trained language models, which require extensive task-specific fine-tuning and schema linking, LLMs can handle zero-shot and few-shot scenarios more effectively due to their large-scale pretraining and reasoning capabilities[25]. For example, studies show that models like Codex achieve high performance in generating SQL queries with minimal prompt engineering. However, challenges such as handling ambiguous queries and optimizing SQL statements for performance and correctness remain[24].


###
II-B LLM-based Text-to-SQL Architecture


*[Figure: Figure 3: This diagram illustrates the key stages of the text-to-SQL process using Large Language Models (LLMs). The process begins with user input in]*


Large Language Models (LLM) have revolutionized the process of generating SQL queries from natural language queries. As it is shown in Figure 3, the Architecture of LLM-based text-to-SQL systems can be broken down into several key phases: natural language understanding, schema comprehension, SQL generation, and SQL execution. Each step involves sophisticated techniques to ensure that user queries are accurately mapped to SQL, providing correct and meaningful results from database.


####
II-B1 Natural Language Understanding


The process begins with user input input in the form of natural language queries. LLMs first reprocess these input to understand the user’s intent, identifying key components such as entities, conditions, and relations within the question.


####
II-B2 Schema Linking


Once the natural language query is parsed, the system moves to schema linking, where the LLM maps the parsed components of the query to the corresponding tables, columns, and relationships in the database schema. For example, ”gas stations” is linked to a table named GasStations, and ”power” is matched with a column named PowerAvailable. This phase is crucial as it ensures that the system can correctly interpret the query in the context of


####
II-B3 SQL Generation


After the query has been parsed and linked to the schema, the LLM generates an SQL query based o the established semantic relationships. This stage utilize the model’s understanding of SQL syntax and database logic to form a structured query that reflects the user’s intent. The generated SQL is then validated and optimized for accuracy and performance.


####
II-B4 SQL Execution and Output


The final SQL query is executed on the underlying database ( such as SQLiteor MySQL) to retrieve the requested information. The results of the query are returned either in raw format or, in some systems, converted back into natural language for easier interpretation by the user. This optional SQL-to-text phase is especially useful in providing users with a more readable response rather than a purely tabular output.


This architecture is depicted in Figure 3, which shown the flow from user input to the final SQL query. Each phase is designed to make the text-to-SQL systems more accessible for non-technical users.


##
III BENCHMARKS AND EVALUATION METHODS


*[Figure: Figure 4: A taxonomy tree of research in LLM-based text-to-SQL. The format is adapted from [26]]*


Evaluating LLM-based text-to-SQL systems is crucial for measuring how well they understand natural language and generate accurate SQL queries. To do this, researchers use a variety of datasets and benchmarks that test these models across different scenarios, both within specific domains and across multiple domains. This section explores the different datasets, discusses well-known benchmarks, and looks at methods to evaluate the performance of these systems, highlighting areas where improvements are still needed.


*[Figure: TABLE I: Statistics and Characteristics of well-known datasets used in text-to-SQL]*


###
III-A Types of Datasets used in Benchmarks


Text-to-SQL research has made rapid progress due to the availability of various benchmark datasets, each contributing unique challenges for model development. These datasets are broadly categorized into four types based on their characteristics: cross-domain, knowledge-augmented, context-dependent, and robustness. As it shown in Table I, we categorised most well known dataset in using these criteria.


####
III-A1 Cross-domain Datasets


Datasets like WikiSQL[27], Spider[28], and KaggleDBA[31] focus on evaluating the generalization capabilities of models across multiple databases from different domains. These datasets are designed to test whether models can generate accurate SQL queries for databases they have not seen during training [28].


####
III-A2 Knowledge-Augmented Datasets


Datasets such as SQUALL[29] and BIRD[13] incorporate external knowledge to improve the semantic understanding of SQL generation. These datasets aim to enhance the models’ comprehension by augmenting the schema with additional contextual information, allowing for more accurate and meaningful SQL generation [13].


####
III-A3 Context-Dependent Datasets


These datasets like CoSQL[3] and SParc[33] emphasize the conversational nature of querying databases, where previous use interactions influence current queries. These datasets challenge models to maintain context throughout multi-turn interactions, making them essential for developing systems that can handle complex, dialog-driven database queries[33].


####
III-A4 Robustness Datasets


This kind of dataset like ADVETA[32] tests the robustness of text-to-SQL systems, specifically by introducing adversarial table perturbations. This method tests that models are capable of handling unexpected changes in database schema or table structure, thereby assessing their adaptability to real-world scenarios[32].


The Table I datasets collectively push the boundaries of text-to-SQL research, providing challenges across various dimensions,
from domain generalization to contextual understanding and system robustness.


###
III-B Evaluation Metrics Used in Benchmarks


*[Figure: Figure 5: Four main evaluation metrics]*


Benchmarks for Text-to-SQL systems use metrics that capture both the correctness and efficiency of SQL query. These metrics test that systems not only produce accurate SQL queries, but also perform efficiently in real-world database environments. As shown in Figure 5, evaluation metrics fall into two categories: Content Matching-based Metrics and Execution-based Metrics.


####
III-B1 Content Matching-based Metrics


Content matching-based metrics focus on how closely the structure of the generated SQL query matched that of the gold (or reference) query. This type of evaluation is needed for ensuring that the model follows the correct SQL syntax and structure, even if it might not always produce the most optimized SQL query.


•


Component Matching (CM): This metric evaluates each component of the SQL query ( such as SELECT, FROM, WHERE) individually. Even if the components appear in a different order than in the gold query, they are considered correct as long as they correspond to the expected components. This allows for flexibility in the query structure while ensuring the essential parts of the SQL query are present and accurate[28].


•


Exact Matching (EM): Exact matching is stricter, requiring the generated SQL query to match the gold query exactly in terms of both structure and order. Every element including the sequence of components, must be identical to the gold query. The disadvantage of this metric is it can penalize queries that are functionally correct but structured differently[28].


####
III-B2 Execution-based Metrics


these metrics focus on the actual performance of the generated SQL query when executed on a database. These metrics are particularly important for ensuring that the queries not only follow the correct structure but also return the correct results and run efficiently in real-world scenarios.


•


Execution Accuracy (EX): This metric checks whether the generated SQL query, when executed on the database, returns the same result as the gold query. Execution accuracy focuses on the correctness of the result, regardless of how the query is structured. As long as the output matched, the query is considered accurate[28].


•


Valid Efficiency Score (VES): The Valid Efficiency Score (VES) measures the computational efficiency of the generated SQL query compared to the gold query. While a query might return the correct result, it could still be inefficient, requiring unnecessary computational resources. VES penalizes queries that introduce extra complexity, such as redundant subqueries or unnecessary joins, even if the results match.The Valid Efficiency Score (VES) measures the computational efficiency of the generated SQL query compared to the gold query. While a query might return the correct result, it could still be inefficient, requiring unnecessary computational resources. VES penalizes queries that introduce extra complexity, such as redundant subqueries or unnecessary joins, even if the results match[3].


[table]


[table]


[table]


The Valid Efficiency Score (VES) is calculated over `N` examples, evaluating both the correctness and efficiency of each generated SQL query. In the formula, `V_{n}` denotes the result of the gold SQL query, and `\hat{V_{n}}` represents the result of the generated query. The indicator function `1(V_{n},\hat{V_{n}})` returns 1 if the results match and 0 otherwise. `R(Y_{n},\hat{Y_{n}})` measures the relative execution efficiency of the generated query compared to the gold query, calculated as the square root of the ratio of their execution times. The final VES is the average of these values across all `N` examples, with a perfect score of 1 indicating both accuracy and optimal efficiency[3].


Most of the recent LLM-based text-to-SQL studies focus on
these four datasets


###
III-C Methods


LLM-based text-to-SQL systems fall into two main classes of methods: In-context learning (ICL) and Fine-tuning (FT). Each class involves different strategies for training and guiding the mode to generate SQL queries from natural language inputs. These methods rely on leveraging the model’s pre-trained knowledge through prompts or fine-tuning it with task-specific data to improve SQL query generation.


####
III-C1 In-context Learning (ICL)


In in-context learning, the model generates the SQL query based on a given context without any updates to the model parameters. Instead, the model is guided through accurate constructed prompts. In-context learning includes several categories that optimize how queries are generated and improve the accuracy. Mathematically, we can describe the SQL query generation task as:
[table]


Where Y is the generated SQL query, Q is the natural language questions, S represents the database schema, I is the intermediate reasoning, and `\theta` are the parameters of the pre-trained model. In in-context learning, this formula highlights that the model’s output is determined by the input information (Q,S,I) and the pre-trained knowledge embedded in `\theta` , remains fixed during the process, and the model’s performance depends on how effectively the input prompt is engineered to guide the model towards generating accurate SQL queries. In Table II, we classify the most famous methods in five main categories in the area of in-context learning. In next we illustrate all these categories.


*[Figure: TABLE II: State of art methods used in in-context learning for LLM-based text-to-SQL. C1: zero shot and few shots learning, C2: Decomposition, C3: Pro]*


•


Zero-Shot and Few-Shot Learning:
In zero-shot learning, the model generates SQL queries without any prior exposure to similar examples. the model relies purely on its pre-trained knowledge to interpret the input and produce SQL queries. For example, in C3’s zero-shot prompting of ChatGPT for text-to-SQL tasks, no fine-tuning is required[2] Zero-shot learning is most effective when the LLM has been pre-trained on a vast corpus that includes SQL-related content. However, in few-shot learning, the model is provided with a few examples of input-output pairs, which guide its generation of new SQL queries. An example is FinSQL, where models are given a small set of SQL queries and asked to generalized from these examples [41].


•


Decomposition: This technique breaks complex queries into simpler sub-queries. Decomposition methods can involve dividing a challenging natural language question into multiple SQL queries that are easier to generate. Decomposition enhances the model’s ability to handle multi-step or nested SQL queries. In the case of DIN-SQL, a decomposition method is used to divide complex natural language queries into more manageable parts to improve the accuracy of SQL generation[47].


•


Prompt Optimization:
This involves refining the input prompts to achieve better SQL generation. By providing more structured or derailed prompts, the model is better guided in generating the appropriate SQL queries. Techniques like prompt design and prompt calibration fall under this category, ensuring the prompts are constructed to maximize the model’s understanding. Methods like ACT-SQL sue prompt optimization to enhance SQL generation by structuring the prompts more efficiently and linking them directly to the database schema[34].


•


Reasoning Enhancement: Reasoning enhancement methods, such as Chain of Thought (CoT) and Tree of Thoughts (ToT), guide the model to think step-by-step. These approaches enable the model to solve complex queries by generating intermediate reasoning steps before arriving at the final SQL output[46],[45] .


•


Execution Refinement:
These methods involve iterative improvements to the SQL query. The model generates an initial SQL query, executes it, and then refines it based on feedback or the results. This method ensures that the generated SQL query is optimized for performance and correctness, minimizing errors in execution[43].


####
III-C2 Fine-Tuning


*[Figure: TABLE III: State of art methods used in fine-tuning (FT) for LLM-based text-to-SQL. C1: Pre-trained, C2: Decomposition, C3: Data Augmented, C4: Enhanc]*


Fine-tuning involves refining the model’s internal parameters, `\theta` , using task-specific datasets. Unlike in-context learning methods, where the model’s parameters remain fixed and prompts are the primary mechanism of control, fine-tuning updates the model’s parameters based on examples from the target task. This process allows the model to become more specialized in tasks like text-to-SQL query generation, improving its ability to translate natural language questions into accurate SQL queries over time.


Mathematically, this process is represented as:
[table]


Where `\theta` is the pre-trained model’s parameters, D is the task-specific dataset ( pair of questions and SQL queries) and `\theta^{\prime}` is represents the updated parameters after fine-tuning[50].


In fine-tuning, the model learns patterns specific to SQL generation, such as understanding database schema and query syntax. This allows it to perform better at generating SQL queries by modifying its internal parameters based on task data, making the model more specialized and accurate for the SQL task. the new parameters, `\theta^{\prime}` , reflect the model’s enhanced ability to generalize across different databases and queries. Currently, a number of studies exploring a
better fine-tuning method have been released. We categorize the well-designed fine-tuning methods in different categories based on their mechanisms, as shown in Table  III.


•


Pre-trained Methods:
Pre-trained methods form the backbone of fine-tuning for text-to-SQL systems by leveraging the cast general knowledge embedded in LLMs, such as GPT, LLaMA, and T5. these models, trained on diverse textual data, are adapted fro SQL query generation by fine-tuning with task-specific data. The fine-tuning process enhances their ability to interpret natural language and accurately map it to SQL commands across different domains and database schemas. Examples like SQL-GEN show how pre-trained models are fine-tuned with synthetic data for dialect-specific SQL generation, while systems like RESDSQL fine-tune LLMs on datasets like Spider for complex query handling[48], [54].


•


Fine-Tuning Decomposition:
Fine-tuning decomposition methods aim to enhance the performance of LLM on text-to-SQL tasks by breaking down the complex process of query generation into smaller and manageable sub-tasks. The main idea is to address each sub-task individually, thereby allowing the model to better focus and fine-tune its parameters for specific challenges related to text-to-SQL generation. By decomposing the task into stages like schema linking and query formation, model can be trained to handle these distinct processes more effectively than if it were trained on the entire query generation task all at once[52].
The typical fine-tuning decomposition process involves:


–


Task Segmentation: breaking down the text-to-SQL conversion into smaller tasks like schema linking and SQL query generation


–


Sequential Fine-Tuning: Training the model on these sub-tasks in sequence or in parallel so that each sub-task is learned optimally.


•


Data Augmented Methods: The performance of the model is particularly affected by the quality of the training labels during fine-tuning. Poor or inadequate labeling can be counterproductive, often optimal results are not achieved. Rather, if effective augmentation or high-quality data is present, fine tuning is likely to yield results more than even the best fine tuning strategies implemented in low quality or raw data. In text-to-SQL and other problems data-augmented fine-tuning has progressed greatly, as more efforts now aim at improving the data quality rather than the architecture.
As an example, Symbol-LLM has developed an injection and an infusion phase with a focus on improving the data quality during instruction tuning [53]. Further, CodeS uses ChatGPT to perform bi-directional generation to improve the training contents. Finally, StructLM is put to different structured knowledge oriented training in order to sharpen its ability[51].


•


Enhance Architecture:
Using the generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) framework employs a decoder-only transformer architecture combined with standard auto-regressive decoding for text generation[4]. However, recent research on the efficiency of large language models (LLMs) has highlighted a shared challenge: when generating long sequences in the auto-regressive paradigm, the attention mechanism significantly increases latency. This issue is particularly pronounced in LLM-based text-to-SQL systems, where generating SQL queries is considerably slower than traditional language modeling, posing a challenge for developing efficient, localized natural language interfaces to databases (NLIDB). To address this, Consistency large language models (CLLMs) have been developed with an enhanced model architecture, providing a solution to reduce latency and speed up SQL query generation[50].


##
IV Leveraging Knowledge Graphs in LLM-based Text-to-SQL System


Knowledge Graphs are structured representations of real-world entities and relationships between them, serving as a rich repository that connects and organizes semantic concepts. They provide, in a database context, a way of navigating through complex relationships and hierarchical structures that can represent large volumes of structured data effectively[55]. They work in search engines, natural language understanding, and query processing. Overall, they are used apply very well to the text-to-SQL system. They improve understand-ability by providing context and clearly showing the relationships between entities, tables, and attributes that help translation of natural language queries into correct SQL form.


While LLMs opened a new chapter for text-to-SQL systems, they do face special challenges: ambiguity and complexity, schema understanding and linking, long sequences and efficiency that can make the query generating process slow and less efficient due to the high latency in large databases. Knowledge graphs (KGs) help us address a few of these challenges in LLM-based text-to-SQL systems. KGs provide structured data and semantic context to the model for improvement in relationship and entity understanding within the schema for possible query generation and accuracy.


Knowledge graphs can be integrated onto large language models for the enhancement of SQL query generation in several ways. Among these, the main advantages involve improved schema linking. Knowledge graphs allow large language models to link natural language queries with the respective tables and columns of the database schema through explicit semantic relations from diverse entities. This relieves one of the biggest pains of translation from text to SQL, which is correctly mapping elements of a user’s query to the structure of the database[56].


Other benefits include contextual representation. Knowledge graphs provide that additional layer of context necessary for an LLM to disambiguate terms in NL queries. This context permits the model to resolve references to entities or relationships that may not be immediately obvious from the query itself and hence improve the accuracy of the generated SQL.


For example, variants like ChatKBQA[57] use this knowledge graph for iterative question answering. The approach here is ”generate-then-retrieve,” whereby an LLM generates candidate answers that get validated against the knowledge graph. This iterative process refines the query to make certain that the final SQL query matches the database structure and captures the intention of the user[57].


Another approach is the Interactive-KBQA[58], which refers to knowledge graphs by trustful, interactive, and multi-turn query generation. In this approach, an LLM simply interacts with the KG over several turns to build a query step by step. Through iterative dialogue with the knowledge graph, the SQL query is refined to incorporate feedback from each interaction in order to improve the accuracy of the overall result[58].


Abu-Rasheed et al[59]. describes an enhanced LLM-based chatbot with a knowledge graph to support students in personalized learning recommendations. The KG enhances the chatbot with contextual information that allows not only clear explanations of learning paths but also smooth interactions with human mentors. Such integration advances AI-driven educational guidance along the dimensions of transparency and contextual relevance, thereby completing the circle of how LLMs and KGs can collaborate on better decision-making by students and improved learning outcomes[59].


Researchers describe how such KGs address schema linking and contextual representation challenges that come up in mapping natural language into SQL statements accurately. This paper further emphasizes the impact of the KG in enhancing the precision and speed of query generation but also points out scalability challenges and performance in large complex databases[60].


Of course, there are downsides to embedding knowledge graphs with large language models. One of those issues involves the complexity of the graph. Creating comprehensive knowledge graphs that accurately reflect the database schema and all possible relations between entities is incredibly time-consuming and laborious.


The second downside is dynamic schema adaptation. Knowledge graphs should be constantly updated while database schemas evolve. This may be rather problematic in highly dynamic or frequently changing databases, as the price one has to pay for maintaining a decent KG may be high.


Third one is scalability: For big databases, knowledge graphs must remain efficient and scalable so that they do not add significant computational overhead so that query generation can support it. Ensuring that the KG performs effectively with large and complex databases remains a critical goal in its effective integration with LLMs.


Regarding these issues, key future directions are refining how KGs improve the context-sensitive output, enhancing scalability and efficiency to complex databases, and dynamic updating techniques for both KGs and LLMs. Integration of retrieval augmented generation with fine-tuning finds a right balance toward model efficiency and accuracy. Lastly, expansion into sensitive domains like healthcare and education requires ethical alignment and transparency, continuing to hold its spot as a pivotal area for improvement. The future of LLM-KG systems generally retains application efficiency in an adaptive and contextualized form[60], [59].


##
V Future Research


While the integration of LLMs into text-to-SQL systems has achieved significant strides in natural language querying, a number of challenges remain. These will be overcome with future research that will further improve the performance, efficiency, and usability of these systems. As seen from the elaboration on some key challenges and their possible solutions in the following, it will shape the evolution of this paradigm[61].


###
V-A Scalability and Computational Efficiency


Enhancing LLM-based text-to-SQL systems for large and complex databases without losing computational efficiency is an important challenge. The processing and generation cost of SQL queries remains high, especially with longer sequences and larger datasets. Future solutions will likely focus on model optimizations, more efficient retrieval and storage mechanisms, and specialized indexing techniques to streamline query generation.


###
V-B Dynamic Adaptation to Schema Changes


Real-world databases are dynamic, constantly evolving with schema changes and added data, necessitating adaptation of LLM-based systems without full retraining. Techniques like incremental learning and flexible architectures will enable seamless updates of both LLMs and KGs, maintaining up-to-date query accuracy, particularly for rapidly changing databases.


###
V-C Contextual Accuracy and Disambiguity


Many LLM-based text-to-SQL systems face challenges in handling complex and ambiguous queries where context is not explicitly given. Improving contextual accuracy will require research into how LLMs use structured information from KGs. Enhancing semantic links between user queries and the database schema will be critical, and more advanced semantic parsing and disambiguation techniques will help resolve ambiguity.


###
V-D Balancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and Fine-Tuning


While fine-tuning models for specific domains improves performance, RAG offers a way to dynamically incorporate context with less extensive model retraining. The balance between RAG and fine-tuning is an area to be explored, with potential future systems leveraging the strengths of both approaches to minimize training time while maintaining context-sensitive query generation.


###
V-E Ethics, Data Privacy, and Interpretability


The application of LLMs in critical domains like healthcare, finance, and education raises ethical concerns regarding data privacy and model interpretability. It is essential for such systems to be transparent, reliable, and respectful of user privacy. Future work will need to establish clear explainability protocols, safe data handling practices, and transparent AI procedures to build trust in LLM-based text-to-SQL systems.


###
V-F Human-in-the-Loop and Interactive Querying


Integration with human feedback is a key future direction. Human-in-the-loop mechanisms will help users to refine and correct generated queries interactively, enhancing model accuracy and transparency. Improved interactivity will not only help build user trust but also provide enhanced learning and error correction opportunities during SQL generation.


###
V-G Knowledge Graph Integration and Maintenance


While knowledge graphs improve schema awareness and enhance query precision, their construction and maintenance are complex and resource-intensive. A scalable implementation will require efficient automation of KG creation and optimized integration with LLMs. Additionally, developing dynamic updating techniques for KGs without degrading performance is crucial for ensuring that systems remain effective as data and schemas evolve.


##
VI Conclusion


The future for LLM-based text-to-SQL systems looks bright, and this research keeps targeting those areas in which there is room for improvement with respect to computational efficiency, robustness, contextual accuracy, and ethics of AI practices. As the systems continue to incorporate more knowledge graphs, refine retrieval-augmented generation, and improve human-in-the-loop mechanisms, they will be more effective, accurate, and user-friendly. The next-generation systems will have scalability, transparency, and adaptability as hallmarks for real-world applications across a wide range of domains.


## References


[1]

A. B. KANBUROĞLU and F. B. TEK, “Text-to-sql: A methodical review of challenges and models,” Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 403–419, 2024.


[2]

X. Dong, C. Zhang, Y. Ge, Y. Mao, Y. Gao, J. Lin, D. Lou et al., “C3: Zero-shot text-to-sql with chatgpt,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07306, 2023.


[3]

T. Yu, R. Zhang, H. Y. Er, S. Li, E. Xue, B. Pang, X. V. Lin, Y. C. Tan, T. Shi, Z. Li et al., “Cosql: A conversational text-to-sql challenge towards cross-domain natural language interfaces to databases,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.05378, 2019.


[4]

Z. Hong, Z. Yuan, Q. Zhang, H. Chen, J. Dong, F. Huang, and X. Huang, “Next-generation database interfaces: A survey of llm-based text-to-sql,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08426, 2024.


[5]

Y. Gan, X. Chen, and M. Purver, “Exploring underexplored limitations of cross-domain text-to-sql generalization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.05157, 2021.


[6]

W. X. Zhao, K. Zhou, J. Li, T. Tang, X. Wang, Y. Hou, Y. Min, B. Zhang, J. Zhang, Z. Dong et al., “A survey of large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.18223, 2023.


[7]

T. Mahmud, K. A. Hasan, M. Ahmed, and T. H. C. Chak, “A rule based approach for nlp based query processing,” in 2015 2nd international conference on electrical information and communication technologies (EICT).   IEEE, 2015, pp. 78–82.


[8]

N. Kang, B. Singh, Z. Afzal, E. M. van Mulligen, and J. A. Kors, “Using rule-based natural language processing to improve disease normalization in biomedical text,” Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 876–881, 2013.


[9]

L. Hammami, A. Paglialonga, G. Pruneri, M. Torresani, M. Sant, C. Bono, E. G. Caiani, and P. Baili, “Automated classification of cancer morphology from italian pathology reports using natural language processing techniques: A rule-based approach,” Journal of Biomedical Informatics, vol. 116, p. 103712, 2021.


[10]

G. Katsogiannis-Meimarakis and G. Koutrika, “A deep dive into deep learning approaches for text-to-sql systems,” in Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Management of Data, 2021, pp. 2846–2851.


[11]

F. S. Banitaba, S. Aygun, and M. H. Najafi, “Late breaking results: Fortifying neural networks: Safeguarding against adversarial attacks with stochastic computing,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.04861, 2024.


[12]

A. Kumar, P. Nagarkar, P. Nalhe, and S. Vijayakumar, “Deep learning driven natural languages text to sql query conversion: a survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.04415, 2022.


[13]

J. Li, B. Hui, G. Qu, J. Yang, B. Li, B. Li, B. Wang, B. Qin, R. Geng, N. Huo et al., “Can llm already serve as a database interface? a big bench for large-scale database grounded text-to-sqls,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.


[14]

G. Katsogiannis-Meimarakis and G. Koutrika, “A survey on deep learning approaches for text-to-sql,” The VLDB Journal, vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 905–936, 2023.


[15]

H. Li, “Deep learning for natural language processing: advantages and challenges,” National Science Review, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 24–26, 2018.


[16]

T. B. Brown, “Language models are few-shot learners,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14165, 2020.


[17]

M. H. Tahir, S. Shams, L. Fiaz, F. Adeeba, and S. Hussain, “Benchmarking pre-trained large language models’ potential across urdu nlp tasks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.15453, 2024.


[18]

H. Wang, J. Li, H. Wu, E. Hovy, and Y. Sun, “Pre-trained language models and their applications,” Engineering, vol. 25, pp. 51–65, 2023.


[19]

T. Guo and H. Gao, “Content enhanced bert-based text-to-sql generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.07179, 2019.


[20]

B. Min, H. Ross, E. Sulem, A. P. B. Veyseh, T. H. Nguyen, O. Sainz, E. Agirre, I. Heintz, and D. Roth, “Recent advances in natural language processing via large pre-trained language models: A survey,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 56, no. 2, sep 2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3605943


[21]

OpenAI, “Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.


[22]

M. Chen, J. Tworek, H. Jun, Q. Yuan, H. P. de Oliveira Pinto, J. Kaplan, H. Edwards, Y. Burda, N. Joseph, G. Brockman et al., “Evaluating large language models trained on code,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.


[23]

H. Touvron, T. Lavril, G. Izacard, X. Martinet, M.-A. Lachaux, T. Lacroix, B. Rozière, N. Goyal, E. Hambro, F. Azhar et al., “Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971, 2023.


[24]

N. Rajkumar, R. Li, and D. Bahdanau, “Evaluating the text-to-sql capabilities of large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.00498, 2022.


[25]

B. Zhang, Y. Ye, G. Du, X. Hu, Z. Li, S. Yang, C. H. Liu, R. Zhao, Z. Li, and H. Mao, “Benchmarking the text-to-sql capability of large language models: A comprehensive evaluation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.02951, 2024.


[26]

D. Xu, W. Chen, W. Peng, C. Zhang, T. Xu, X. Zhao, X. Wu, Y. Zheng, and E. Chen, “Large language models for generative information extraction: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.17617, 2023.


[27]

V. Zhong, C. Xiong, and R. Socher, “Seq2sql: Generating structured queries from natural language using reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.00103, 2017.


[28]

T. Yu, R. Zhang, K. Yang, M. Yasunaga, D. Wang, Z. Li, J. Ma, I. Li, Q. Yao, S. Roman et al., “Spider: A large-scale human-labeled dataset for complex and cross-domain semantic parsing and text-to-sql task,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.08887, 2018.


[29]

T. Shi, C. Zhao, J. Boyd-Graber, H. Daumé III, and L. Lee, “On the potential of lexico-logical alignments for semantic parsing to sql queries,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11246, 2020.


[30]

L. Wang, A. Zhang, K. Wu, K. Sun, Z. Li, H. Wu, M. Zhang, and H. Wang, “Dusql: A large-scale and pragmatic chinese text-to-sql dataset,” in Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2020, pp. 6923–6935.


[31]

C.-H. Lee, O. Polozov, and M. Richardson, “Kaggledbqa: Realistic evaluation of text-to-sql parsers,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.11455, 2021.


[32]

X. Pi, B. Wang, Y. Gao, J. Guo, Z. Li, and J.-G. Lou, “Towards robustness of text-to-sql models against natural and realistic adversarial table perturbation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.09994, 2022.


[33]

T. Yu, R. Zhang, M. Yasunaga, Y. C. Tan, X. V. Lin, S. Li, H. Er, I. Li, B. Pang, T. Chen et al., “Sparc: Cross-domain semantic parsing in context,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.02285, 2019.


[34]

H. Zhang, R. Cao, L. Chen, H. Xu, and K. Yu, “Act-sql: In-context learning for text-to-sql with automatically-generated chain-of-thought,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.17342, 2023.


[35]

X. Liu, S. Shen, B. Li, P. Ma, R. Jiang, Y. Luo, Y. Zhang, J. Fan, G. Li, and N. Tang, “A survey of nl2sql with large language models: Where are we, and where are we going?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.05109, 2024.


[36]

Y. Fan, Z. He, T. Ren, C. Huang, Y. Jing, K. Zhang, and X. S. Wang, “Metasql: A generate-then-rank framework for natural language to sql translation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17144, 2024.


[37]

H. Xia, F. Jiang, N. Deng, C. Wang, G. Zhao, R. Mihalcea, and Y. Zhang, “Sql-craft: Text-to-sql through interactive refinement and enhanced reasoning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.14851, 2024.


[38]

Y. Gu, Y. Shu, H. Yu, X. Liu, Y. Dong, J. Tang, J. Srinivasa, H. Latapie, and Y. Su, “Middleware for llms: Tools are instrumental for language agents in complex environments,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.14672, 2024.


[39]

Z. Hong, Z. Yuan, H. Chen, Q. Zhang, F. Huang, and X. Huang, “Knowledge-to-sql: Enhancing sql generation with data expert llm,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.11517, 2024.


[40]

Q. Zhang, J. Dong, H. Chen, W. Li, F. Huang, and X. Huang, “Structure guided large language model for sql generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.13284, 2024.


[41]

C. Zhang, Y. Mao, Y. Fan, Y. Mi, Y. Gao, L. Chen, D. Lou, and J. Lin, “Finsql: Model-agnostic llms-based text-to-sql framework for financial analysis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10506, 2024.


[42]

D. Gao, H. Wang, Y. Li, X. Sun, Y. Qian, B. Ding, and J. Zhou, “Text-to-sql empowered by large language models: A benchmark evaluation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.15363, 2023.


[43]

P. Vougiouklis, N. Papasarantopoulos, D. Zheng, D. Tuckey, C. Diao, Z. Shen, and J. Pan, “Fastrat: Fast and efficient cross-lingual text-to-sql semantic parsing,” in Proceedings of the 13th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing and the 3rd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 2023, pp. 564–576.


[44]

H. Fu, C. Liu, B. Wu, F. Li, J. Tan, and J. Sun, “Catsql: Towards real world natural language to sql applications,” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 1534–1547, 2023.


[45]

J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V. Le, D. Zhou et al., “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models,” Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 35, pp. 24 824–24 837, 2022.


[46]

S. Yao, D. Yu, J. Zhao, I. Shafran, T. Griffiths, Y. Cao, and K. Narasimhan, “Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.


[47]

M. Pourreza and D. Rafiei, “Din-sql: Decomposed in-context learning of text-to-sql with self-correction,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.


[48]

M. Pourreza, R. Sun, H. Li, L. Miculicich, T. Pfister, and S. O. Arik, “Sql-gen: Bridging the dialect gap for text-to-sql via synthetic data and model merging,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.12733, 2024.


[49]

T. Zhang, C. Chen, C. Liao, J. Wang, X. Zhao, H. Yu, J. Wang, J. Li, and W. Shi, “Sqlfuse: Enhancing text-to-sql performance through comprehensive llm synergy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.14568, 2024.


[50]

S. Kou, L. Hu, Z. He, Z. Deng, and H. Zhang, “Cllms: Consistency large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.00835, 2024.


[51]

H. Li, J. Zhang, H. Liu, J. Fan, X. Zhang, J. Zhu, R. Wei, H. Pan, C. Li, and H. Chen, “Codes: Towards building open-source language models for text-to-sql,” Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 1–28, 2024.


[52]

M. Pourreza and D. Rafiei, “Dts-sql: Decomposed text-to-sql with small large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01117, 2024.


[53]

F. Xu, Z. Wu, Q. Sun, S. Ren, F. Yuan, S. Yuan, Q. Lin, Y. Qiao, and J. Liu, “Symbol-llm: Towards foundational symbol-centric interface for large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.09278, 2023.


[54]

H. Li, J. Zhang, C. Li, and H. Chen, “Resdsql: Decoupling schema linking and skeleton parsing for text-to-sql,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 37, no. 11, 2023, pp. 13 067–13 075.


[55]

P. Naghshnejad, G. T. Marchan, T. Olayiwola, J. Romagnoli, and R. Kumar, “Graph-based modeling and molecular dynamics for ion activity coefficient prediction in polymeric ion-exchange membranes,” 2024.


[56]

J. Sequeda, D. Allemang, and B. Jacob, “A benchmark to understand the role of knowledge graphs on large language model’s accuracy for question answering on enterprise sql databases,” in Proceedings of the 7th Joint Workshop on Graph Data Management Experiences & Systems (GRADES) and Network Data Analytics (NDA), 2024, pp. 1–12.


[57]

H. Luo, Z. Tang, S. Peng, Y. Guo, W. Zhang, C. Ma, G. Dong, M. Song, W. Lin et al., “Chatkbqa: A generate-then-retrieve framework for knowledge base question answering with fine-tuned large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08975, 2023.


[58]

G. Xiong, J. Bao, and W. Zhao, “Interactive-kbqa: Multi-turn interactions for knowledge base question answering with large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.15131, 2024.


[59]

H. Abu-Rasheed, M. H. Abdulsalam, C. Weber, and M. Fathi, “Supporting student decisions on learning recommendations: An llm-based chatbot with knowledge graph contextualization for conversational explainability and mentoring,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08517, 2024.


[60]

S. S. Sundaram, B. Solomon, A. Khatri, A. Laumas, P. Khatri, and M. A. Musen, “Use of a structured knowledge base enhances metadata curation by large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.05893, 2024.


[61]

OpenAI, “Chatgpt: A language model for generating human-like text,” https://openai.com/chatgpt, 2023.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►