# Graphy'our Data: Towards End-to-End Modeling, Exploring and Generating Report from Raw Data

**arXiv ID**: 2502.16868v1
**Authors**: Longbin Lai, Changwei Luo, Yunkai Lou, Mingchen Ju, Zhengyi Yang
**Published**: 2025-02-24
**URL**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16868v1
**Source**: ar5iv full-text rendering

[2502.16868] Graphy’our Data: Towards End-to-End Modeling, Exploring and Generating Report from Raw Data


# Graphy’our Data: Towards End-to-End Modeling, Exploring and Generating Report from Raw Data


Longbin Lai, Changwei Luo, Yunkai Lou, Mingchen Ju‡, Zhengyi Yang‡

longbin.lailb, pomelo.lcw, louyunkai.lyk@alibaba-inc.com

mingchen.ju@student., zhengyy.yang@unsw.edu.au

Alibaba Group, China; ‡University of New South Wales, Australia


###### Abstract.


Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated remarkable performance in tasks such as
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and autonomous AI agent workflows. Yet, when faced with large
sets of unstructured documents requiring progressive exploration, analysis, and synthesis, such as
conducting literature survey, existing approaches often fall short. We address this
challenge – termed Progressive Document Investigation – by introducing Graphy, an end-to-end platform
that automates data modeling, exploration and high-quality report generation in a user-friendly manner.
Graphy comprises an offline Scrapper that transforms raw documents into a structured
graph of Fact and Dimension nodes, and an online Surveyor that enables iterative exploration and
LLM-driven report generation. We showcase a pre-scrapped graph of over 50,000 papers – complete
with their references – demonstrating how Graphy facilitates the literature-survey scenario.
The demonstration video can be found at https://youtu.be/uM4nzkAdGlM.

††conference: International Conference on Management of Data; June 22–27,
2025; Berlin, Germany


##
1. Introduction


We study real-world investigative tasks that require iterative exploration and synthesis of large unstructured data corpora. We refer to this challenge as Progressive Document Investigation (PDI), an iterative process of identifying a focal topic, refining a relevant dataset, and ultimately generating high-quality reports, summaries, or recommendations.
A motivating example of PDI  is the literature survey process in academic research. Researchers start with a topic of interest, identify a few seed papers, and conduct iterative rounds of investigation: skimming key elements (e.g., “abstract”, “challenges”, “solutions”), following references to additional papers, and expanding the set of relevant works. After collecting a sufficient corpus, they then synthesize their findings into a structured survey report – often by grouping papers by shared characteristics (e.g., addressing similar challenges or proposing similar solutions).


The advent of Large language models (LLMs) (gpt, 2024) have shown impressive potentials for handling PDI, in particular with techniques like Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) (Lewis
et al., 2021) and autonomous AI agents (Han
et al., 2024). While these methods excel at single-document queries and conversational workflows, they fall short for solving PDI. RAG-based solutions often struggle to maintain consistency and organization when applied to large-scale, multi-step explorations. Existing AI agent systems, on the other hand, risk error propagation across extensive pipelines, especially if they are expected to autonomously parse and link large collections of unstructured data.
Moreover, both methods typically provide limited support for iterative user oversight and curation, which researchers often prefer to ensure accuracy and control.


*[Figure: Figure 1. The design and demo case of literature survey of Graphy.]*


To address these gaps, we propose Graphy, an end-to-end platform that streamlines the PDI  workflow.
We adopt the property graph model for the need of iterative exploration in PDI.
Drawing inspiration from business intelligence (BI) systems (Gray
et al., 1996), we introduce Fact  and Dimension  nodes, analogous to Fact  and Dimension  tables in BI. Here, Fact  nodes represent the primary entities of interest, while Dimension  nodes capture supplementary information. In a literature-survey context, each paper functions as a Fact  node (henceforth they are used interchangeably), and its extracted contents, such as “abstract”, “challenges”, and “solutions”, serve as Dimension  nodes. Although our demonstration centers on the literature-survey scenario, Graphy is broadly applicable; in Section 4, we briefly illustrate its potential in financial use cases.


Fig. 1 provides an overview of Graphy, which consists of two main roles: the offline Scrapper  and the online Surveyor.


Offline Scrapper.
The Scrapper allows users to implement the Inspection  abstraction to direct the extraction of specific
Dimensions  from each document, often leveraging LLMs.
This step transforms an unstructured document into a structured Fact  nodelinked to predefined Dimension  nodes. It simulates how a human researcher would skim a document, pinpointing aspects such as abstract, challenges, and solutions. Additionally, a Navigation  abstraction defines how Fact  nodes are connected, enabling the retrieval of related items for progressive exploration. For instance, an Arxiv (arx, 2024) Navigation  automatically fetches and downloads research papers from this open-source repository.


Because both the extracted data from the Inspection  and the linked data from the Navigation  are relatively stable, we run the Scrapper  offline. Upon completion, it produces a graph of Fact  nodes, Dimension  nodes, and their interconnecting edges, which can be imported into a standard graph database (e.g., GraphScope Interactive (Fan
et al., 2021)).


Online Surveyor.
Designing a user-friendly Surveyor  on top of graph databases poses two key challenges. First, unlike SQL, graph query languages are less familiar to users. Second, graph exploration can become unwieldy, particularly with “supernodes,” which have extremely large numbers of connections. We address these challenges with the Exploration, which is the main interface for navigating the graph and selecting papers of interest. As shown in Fig. 1, it offers a convenient Search  module to initiate exploration. Users can iteratively move from one set of nodes to their neighbors (referenced papers), with Cypher operations (e.g., NeighborQuery) seamlessly integrated into a UI interface inspired by BI toolkits (Stolte
et al., 2002). To avoid overwhelming users, Exploration  employ histograms and top-k selectors to allow users filter out neighbors of interests.


Eventually, users can proceed to the Generation  module, which leverages LLMs for creating reports from the papers selected in the Exploration. Users specify the report’s focus (e.g., challenges, solutions), and the Generation  leverages Fact and relevant Dimension  nodes to draft a mind map. After reviewing and refining, the system produces a coherent, structured report that mimics a human researcher’s synthesis process. The final document can be exported in various formats (e.g., PDF, LaTeX) to facilitate academic writing.


In this paper, we demonstrate how Graphy  can streamline the literature-survey process. Specifically:


•


Data Extraction and Linking:
With a predefined workflow, we demonstrate how the Scrapper  employs the Inspection  to extract Fact  and Dimension  nodes from research papers, and how the Navigation  automatically expands from a set of seed papers to their cited references.


•


Paper Exploration:
Using a pre-scrapped graph containing approximately 50,000 papers, 250,000 Dimension  nodes, and 160,000 references among the papers, we demonstrate how users can effectively utilize the Exploration  interface to progressively search for papers of interest, simulating the process of literature survey.


•


Report Generation:
We demonstrate how the Generation  collects essential information from the selected papers and creates mind maps in line with users’ intentions. We then showcase its capability to transform these mind maps into a well-structured report, which users can download in formats including PDF and TeX.


We have open-sourced both the Graphy  codebase and the pre-scrapped research graph (ope, 2024).
The approximate cost of scrapping the research graph using the QWen-plus model (ton, 2024) is $600.


##
2. Architecture


This section introduces the architecture of Graphy, which comprises an Offline Scrapper and an Online Surveyor.


###
2.1. Offline Scrapper


Inspection. Given a paper document as input, the Inspection processes it to produce a structured representation comprising Fact and Dimension nodes. The paper itself forms the Fact node, while its Dimension nodes are extracted through a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) of instructions. Each subnode’s definition aligns with the user’s specific requirements. For simple dimensions (e.g., an “abstract”), users can employ rule-based methods such as regular expressions. For more advanced tasks, the system supports individually configured LLM subnodes, allowing users to balance cost and performance. For instance, simpler processing can rely on local models (oll, 2024), whereas more complex extraction may involve sophisticated cloud-based models (gpt, 2024). These LLM-based subnodes build on a common workflow that chunks PDF text, stores it in a vector database, and then retrieves only the most relevant chunks—based on user-defined queries, for final extraction by the LLM.


⬇@ifdisplaystyle

 "dag": {


 "nodes": [ ...,


 {


 "name": "Abstract",


 "extract_from": { ... }, # the rule of extracting abstract


 "output_schema": { single_typed: ... } # the output formats


 },


 {


 "name": "Challenges",


 "model" : { "name": "ollama/qwen2.5:7b", ... },


 "query": "Please summarize the challenges in this paper",


 "output_schema": { array_typed: ... } # the output formats


 },


 {


 "name": "Solutions",


 "model" : { "name": "qwen-plus", ... },


 "query": "Please summarize the solutions in this paper \


 for addressing the above challenges.",


 "output_schema": { array_typed: ... }


 }, ...,


 ],


 "edges": [ ...,


 {"source": "Challenges", "target": "Solutions" }


 ]


 }


\lst


A snippet of the PaperInspection DAG in Fig. 1 is shown above. The subnode Abstract is rule-based for extracting the paper’s “abstract”, while two LLM-based subnodes form a chain: Challenges uses a locally deployed model (prefixed with “ollama/”) to identify challenges, and Solutions leverages a cloud-based model to extract solutions. Such chain formation allows the Solutions subnode to leverage the context provided by the Challenges subnode.


Navigation. The Navigation is responsible for establishing connections between Fact nodes,
and in this case particularly, linking papers through their references. Specifically, a subnode can be
deployed in the above “PaperInspection” to extract references from a paper.
These references are then processed by the Navigation to fetch additional paper documents. Currently, we have implemented a Navigation to retrieve papers from Arxiv (arx, 2024). For each reference, only those that can be matched and retrieved through the Navigation are retained. The corresponding documents are downloaded, and the Inspection workflow is repeated for these new papers.
In this demo, we only consider the Navigation that links papers to the referenced papers. The workflow is actually customizable. For instance, one could implement a Navigation to link papers to their associated GitHub repositories.


Graph Modelling. The results of Inspection and Navigation  as shown in Fig. 1, naturally form a graph comprising Fact and Dimension nodes. Each Fact node represents a paper, while the outputs generated by subnodes in the Inspection form a set of Dimension nodes linked to their corresponding Fact node.
This graph is incrementally expanded as new papers are processed. Specifically, when a new Fact node `p_{2}` is added, it is linked to an existing Fact node `p_{1}` if `p_{2}` is retrieved by the Navigation based on references extracted from `p_{1}` .


A notable feature of the Inspection is the customizable “output_schema” field for each subnode in the DAG, which defines the schema (data fields and their data types) for the resulting Dimension nodes.
The output can be single-typed, such as abstract and title of the paper, which can be directly stored as attributes of the Fact node. Alternatively, array-typed outputs like challenges and solutions can be stored as separate Dimension nodes, each sharing the same schema.


###
2.2. Online Surveyor


Exploration. The Exploration  component is designed to give users an intuitive way to interact with the graph database while minimizing the learning curve.


*[Figure: Figure 2. The Search component of Graphy.]*


Traditional graph exploration typically relies on query languages, which can require extra effort to master. We address this by embedding graph queries within interactive UI components. As shown in Fig. 2, the Search module in the Exploration  helps users pinpoint their initial papers for exploration. Three key interactions are highlighted: “E1” searches all nodes containing the “year” attribute with a single click; “E2” displays a histogram of nodes by “year” providing a statistical overview; and “E3” filters and retrieves nodes for a specific year (e.g., 2023) by clicking the corresponding histogram bar. These user actions are seamlessly translated into Cypher queries and executed on the underlying graph database.


Furthermore, encountering “supernodes” with exceedingly large numbers of connections can often overwhelm users and disrupt the analysis flow. To address this, we introduce a StatRefiner module that intervenes before displaying all the neighbors. This module can present neighbors either as a histogram, allowing users to quickly overview and multi-select by groups, or as a table, where they can sort by specific attributes and choose the top-k results for further exploration. In Section 3, we provide examples showing how this approach streamlines the exploration process.


Generation. Once users finish selecting papers in the Exploration, they can employ the Generation to convert this explored data into structured reports. By leveraging the natural language understanding and summarization capabilities of LLMs, the Generation  turns the network of interconnected papers on the canvas into a mind map and, ultimately, a well-formatted narrative report. This process involves three main steps: (1) Interpreting User Intentions: Users describe their desired report in natural language, from which LLM infers which attributes and dimensions of the paper are needed. For instance, if a user asks for a related work section focusing on the paper’s challenges, the LLM may determine that the “title” and “abstract” attributes and the “challenges” dimension are required. Users can review and refine these selections before proceeding. As the dimensions are pre-extracted during the offline Scrapper  phase, the Generation  can quickly retrieve them on demand.
(2) Generating Mind Maps: Like a human expert, we prompt the LLM to organize the selected papers into a mind map based on the dimensions mentioned by the users, providing a high-level blueprint for the final report. To accommodate context-size limitations, we adopt an iterative approach that feeds the LLM subsets of the data at a time, gradually constructing the mind map for users to review. (3) Writing Reports: With the mind map in place, the LLM finalizes the literature survey by generating a cohesive report, which can then be downloaded in various formats (e.g., PDF or TeX) to support academic writing.


*[Figure: Figure 3. The demonstration scenario of literature survey of Graphy.]*


##
3. Demonstrating Literature Survey


We demonstrate how Graphy  applies to literature surveys, with emphasis on the online Surveyor.
We will showcase the functionalities of Scrapper using a video as it is time-consuming.


The online Surveyor, shown in Fig. 3, allows the demo attendees to explore a pre-extracted paper network containing over 50,000 papers and 160,000 references. We first look into Fig. 3(a) that is the interface of Exploration  featuring three primary canvases, metaphorically referred to as “Past”, “Present”, and “Future”. Here, “Past” displays already explored papers, and “Present” shows the currently active papers for reviewing in detail, while “Future” highlights the immediate neighbors (i.e., references) of the active papers.
For exploring the papers, the attendee searches for seed papers whose titles contain “Llama3” using the Search  module; then selects “The Llama 3 Herd of Models” and moves it to the “Present” canvas to review its details. Next, the attendee explores the selected paper’s references by pre-querying its neighbors. As described in Section 2.2, these neighbors are not immediately added to the canvas to avoid overwhelming the user; instead, the StatRefiner  module presents a histogram or table view, allowing attendees to focus on aggregated groups or order the data and finally, decide from the top-k papers for further exploration. By doing so, these papers are added to the “Present”canvas, while the previously active papers move to the “Past” canvas. By iteratively following this workflow, attendees can explore as many papers as needed, before proceeding to the Generation task.


In Fig. 3(b), attendees click to input instructions for the report, e.g., “Please write me a related work, focusing on their challenge”. Based on this input, an LLM (QWen-Plus (ton, 2024) for this demo) identifies the relevant attributes and Dimension  nodes needed for the report, which are displayed for user verification and possible modification. In the example, the LLM highlights the “Challenge” node as well as the “title” and “abstract” attributes from the selected papers. These data are then passed to the LLM to produce a mind map, effectively categorizing the papers according to the identified “Challenge”. Attendees can review the mind map, and proceed to final report generation. The final report is built from the mind map and the user’s instructions, culminating in a point-by-point narrative. Once completed, attendees can download the report in PDF or TeX format, complete with citations.


##
4. Extension to Financial Scenarios


We briefly discuss applying Graphy to two financial scenarios.


Company Relationship Analysis. In this scenario, each company is treated as a Fact  node,
and the data extracted by Inspection, such as revenues, main business areas and shareholder holdings extracted from financial reports, are represented as Dimension  nodes.
The Navigation  component establishes inter-company relationships by leveraging the financial or supply-chain dependencies mentioned in the reports. The generated graph can be used to identify comparable competitors, uncover hidden relationships, or assess contagion effects.


Financial News Analysis. In this scenario, each news article serves as a Fact  node, while pertinent details, such as described events and stock performance indicators, can act as Dimension  nodes. The Navigation  builds connections among these Fact  nodes by identifying shared symbols or overlapping financial metrics. This allows analysts to track the evolution of news stories, assess their market impact, or predict future trends based on historical patterns.


## References


(1)



arx (2024)

2024.


arXiv.org e-Print archive.


https://arxiv.org/.


gpt (2024)

2024.


GPT-4o, the new flagship model that can
reason across audio, vision, and text in real time.


https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/


ope (2024)

2024.


Graphy Code.


https://github.com/GraphScope/portal/tree/main/python/graphy.


oll (2024)

2024.


Ollama: Get up and running with large
language models.


https://ollama.com/


ton (2024)

2024.


Top-performance foundation models from
Alibaba Cloud.


https://www.alibabacloud.com/en/solutions/generative-ai/qwen?_p_lc=1


Fan
et al. (2021)

Wenfei Fan, Tao He,
Longbin Lai, and et al.
2021.


GraphScope: A Unified Engine for Big Graph
Processing.


Proc. VLDB Endow. 14,
12 (jul 2021),
2879–2892.


Gray
et al. (1996)

J. Gray, A. Bosworth,
A. Lyaman, and H. Pirahesh.
1996.


Data cube: a relational aggregation operator
generalizing GROUP-BY, CROSS-TAB, and SUB-TOTALS. In
ICDE. 152–159.


Han
et al. (2024)

Shanshan Han, Qifan
Zhang, and et al. 2024.


LLM Multi-Agent Systems: Challenges and Open
Problems.


https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03578


Lewis
et al. (2021)

Patrick Lewis, Ethan
Perez, and et al. 2021.


Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks.


https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401


Stolte
et al. (2002)

C. Stolte, D. Tang, and
P. Hanrahan. 2002.


Polaris: a system for query, analysis, and
visualization of multidimensional relational databases.


IEEE Transactions on Visualization and
Computer Graphics 8, 1
(2002), 52–65.


◄

 Feeling
lucky?

 Conversion
report
 Report
an issue
 View original
on arXiv►